The ship rumbled and groaned until the grey light stopped its muzzy illumination and actually broke through the far eastern sky. Then Gallows, the real Gallows, not the shitty agglomeration of buildings around a dock that they called a town, spread out before me.
It was not an inspiring sight.
There was not a single building standing tall. There were some that had once had upper stories beyond a mere second floor, but they looked ramshackled in their removals. There were flapping cloths that needed to be tied down better on all these tall places. Even from a distance you could see exposed building skeletons.
"Did you have some sort of dragon attack?" I asked.
Shadom scowled. "This isn't me. I'm from the mountains."
"Well, did they?"
"Your education isn't very complete, you know that?"
"I do, but I'm interested."
He sighed. "Some time, before my parents were born, something happened here and basically the whole western chunk of the Sworn Lands broke up and fell into the sea. I guess it was an earthquake, but the old-timers blamed it on enemies of the Marquesa.
"Most of the main settlement was fine, but the shock of the thing, they say all these islands slid down the side of the world for three months, just rumbling away. Most people left. Everything that wasn't squat and sturdy as hell in the first place fell down. Then it stopped sliding and the Marquesa moved her house in and turned it into a city of liars." He spat into the water.
I did some calculations. "How long has the Marquesa ruled here? That seems like a long time for the woman I saw."
Shadom stared a while. "I've thought about that too. I'd always thought the Marquesa would have to be this ancient frail lady. A withered old crone or something. Probably still scary as hell, but not appearing the way she does. I truly thought that and knew I was mistaken when I finally saw her. But I've been thinking that if she's all green-black instead of brown or whatever that's kind of another way she's being honest with us. Of course she looks unnatural. She is unnatural. And if she's going to be some immortal omniscient witch-king then she probably shouldn't look like a regular human, right?"
"Not if she wants to stay away from deception," I said. "But couldn't she be lying to you. I mean to everyone. She doesn't seem like the kind of person who's going to be bound by the same oaths as everyone else."
Shadom stared far away from me. "Well, I'm pretty sure she just heard you say that. And everyone else who's been paying any sort of attention to us saw it too. That was a dumb thing to say Tome. You shouldn't have done it."
He didn't make a move though. I tried to guess what he was thinking and failed. Maybe these kinds of things wouldn't matter so much in Gallows.
The ferry slowly lumbered its way into a berth for the gangplank to be laid across to the shore. It had been a large barge, suitable for carrying big pack animals and carts and their loads. But this dawn there was only the two of us.
I guess I expected more stuff. If this place was the capital of the realm, it should have been bustling, even at dawn. Don't fishers go out early and lay things out for the market? Shouldn't there be cages with little animals and baskets full of vegetables around to provision the local coming across the way each morning?
Instead there was a flat expanse of land below a wall. It was bleak as hell, a killing zone. Or maybe the dock just accomodated very severe tides. Shadom led the way to a flight of stairs built into the wall and we climbed.
***
The streets were empty as Shadom dragged me through them. Not empty like everyone was dead, I should clarify, just empty like everyone in the town had a massive hangover and the world was trying to be as understanding as possible.
The wall we'd climbed to get into the town proper was odd. By my reckoning the top of the wall was more like an embankment on this side, It didn't descend. The whole town was built on top af a little flat hat of land. It didn't seem like the kind of formation that could come about naturally. There were hills and trees throughout the place as far as I could see.
You'll notice I keep waffling about whether to call Gallows a town or a city. The main reason for calling it a city is that it was where the Marquesa lived. In my mind before arriving I was picturing a gothic capital with swooping buttresses and imposing sculpture. I pictured it mostly lit by orange vapours and filled with graying people keeping their heads down as they trudged through life.
But as we walked through I could see it was not like that. The streets were narrow but the low buildings let light in. There weren't many people around, I guess, but you could tell people lived here. The architecture was simple and functional as I saw it. There wasn't anything that was really beautiful, but even the old buildings with their lopped off upper floors seemed to be overgrown with moss and other life. It wasn't thriving, no, but it wasn't dead yet.
And then Shadom stopped us. 
I hadn't noticed the slow descent we'd been on as we approached the centre of town, but now we were stopped in front of a bare wooden frame that loomed above us, and I realized we were in a depression. There were spaces for a dozen ropes up there, but only a fragment of one was hanging limp. There were no bodies.
"And now I can welcome you to Gallows. Don't end up swinging." Shadom said this like he was reading from a script. Then he shook his head. "Come on. I've got to get you in the library and then you're not my problem any more."
Now it was obvious we were descending. There were cracks in the street collecting debris. The shadows were getting longer. And down near the bottom of the hole sat a building. 
The building was squat like most of the buildings we'd seen in town already, but this one did a very good job of looming, despite its lack of height and its position below us. It was roughly oblong, though the northwest corner had nearly been sheared right off. It appeared to have been cast in one solid piece. The walls ran with rippling vertical cracks where bits of light spilled out. It was an ugly brutal building.
"The library," said Shadom.
The library.
In front of the building was a small shed. Shadom led me to it. Inside the shed sat a wizened and tattooed woman. She looked at us both as we approached. She was wary with her flickering glances, but settled on me as the person to address.
"You're Tome."
"That is correct."
"And that's Shadom."
"Also true."There's no sentence.
"I know what's true young lady." She stopped looking at me and busied herself with straightening the few items she shared the office with. "You are not going to need that attitude here. You ain't the arbiter of truth or not in these parts. You are just a pair of hands holding the doors open. Go in and get your key. If you lose it, come to me so I can yell you out to hell and back."
"I will."
"Do you not like giving me respect? Do you already look down your facial protuberances at me?"
"Sorry?"
Shadom leaned in. "Sorry, ma'am. She's foreign. She'll catch on soon enough."
The guard grumbled, but waved us through the gate.
Shadom whispered something I didn't quite catch.
"You have a problem?"
"You have no respect. I know you lie, but I thought you actually knew something about libraries. The Marquesa thought you did."
"What do you mean? I answered her questions. I didn't say anything disrespectful."
Shadom shook his head. "You didn't call her ma'am, madam or sir. You didn't tell her you were sorry to inconvenience her. You said something was true."
Now I was confused. "But those are all lies. That's all fake bullshit. I assumed that her job was about letting us in. Why on earth would I apologize?"
"You've got everything backwards. They sent you to the city of lies because you're a liar and now you want to only tell truths? That's a mule-headed way to behave. Here you hide yourself.
"But the surveillance, won't it keep track of the lies, add to my sentence? Do you even know how long my sentence is?"
We stood before big doors made of some pitted metal. At one point they would have been impressive. Now they looked battered and creaky. Shadom looked at my face like he was trying to find my last bit of sense.
"There's no sentence. You're here now. This is permanent. This is the place the Marquesa is going to keep you for the rest of your days."
"That sounds like a sentence to me. I mean I'll be fine being here for a time but at some point I'll want to be on my way." 
I know, I know. I've changed my tune from those days weeks ago where being locked in a cell was no problem, where I was ready to abandon myself to the risk of the whole thing, being tossed in a foreign prison for my entire natural life. I don't know exactly what to tell you. There it was different. I'd been captured, taken from the street for inexplicable reasons. You go with the flow in those circumstances because they're just temporary. I was in the right frame of mind, that quasi-religious state of mind where things would of course work out, or they wouldn't and either way it was part of a bigger adventure.
This though, walking through a door into an ugly broken building and being told it's permanent, this felt wrong. If it was going to be permanent I wanted to be dragged in by guards, by the state, by someone with power I could obviously not thwart. I didn't want to be asked in by a kid, who was basically calling me an idiot for thinking I could do anything else. Hell, the guard out front wasn't even really trying to keep me in, was she? She said something about keys. I was going to have keys? Then how could this possibly be permanent? Something about those pitted old doors told me it could indeed be so.
I looked at Shadom and tried to count my options. What were they? I had barely any food left. I'd seen how the people had treated us when we traversed these lands. It wasn't like a goddamned soul in this world would help me out there. And I had a feeling it was a long way out in any direction.
Maybe I'd be able to figure something out inside. It was a library. I always liked them. I was a natural for a library. Maybe this would work out all right.
I nodded to Shadom and he pulled on the lever that undid the latch that allowed the heavy door to swing towards us, just wide enough to slip in edgewise.
And that's how I joined the Marquesa's Library.