The day the Marquesa arrived was filled with tension. Harriet bustled up and down every row in the stacks, fingers waving all anemone-like while she fretted and snapped. Lavinia was crabby because Harriet had made her responsible for shooing the non-existent sleepers and making sure none got in to embarass anyone. Since no one had any idea how they got in in the first place (they were never seen entering the front door) this seemed an impossible task. Hedwig had disappeared herself somewhere deep in the building, and I was unclear exactly how that would play when Harriet noticed.
I was a wreck. I hadn't slept the night previous, and I wasn't so young as to be able to shrug that kind of thing off any more. The Obsidian Circle was what Shadom had mentioned back on the road five years ago. He'd said that my story about the sword that new the ends of things was a true one and then he never mentioned it again.
I'd pulled that story of the prophetic blade from some collection a long time ago. Really, I hadn't thought of it since. No one in the library had been really big on reading all the stuff we were filing and sorting for whatever receding horizon of future use. If I call a story like that true then it's about this notion of doing some stupid heroic thing even though you know it will kill you has a greater value. In the story, knowing the end sort of doesn't prevent you from meeting that end.
And here in Gallows I was thinking about the ends of things. Hedwig had long been saying that the library was just a cork in the bunghole of the world, that when everything finally went to hell it'd be because this place broke down. The weight of everything that wasn't sworn and attested to, that wasn't spoken exceedingly carefully, that wasn't accurate to the naked eye of the ubiquitous camera, maybe that accumulation was making us sink. There's something to be said for spreading our fictions out a little more evenly.
The realm outside of Gallows couldn't be more simple a place. I'd been to a number of lands and I still couldn't get used to the idea of everything you did needing backup, and that citizens could call you out on any little infraction. But I hadn't spent so much time out in the country proper, had I? Just the long trek with Shadom. Gallows wasn't like that. People here held all sorts of ridiculous notions in their heads because they'd already been punished enough by being banished out to the zone where no one gave a shit anyway.
The question I had now was, what did Shadom want me to do? He'd been trying to get my attention on the story of the sword. If the story mine was based on came from the Sworn Lands it would probably be in the library. Was he asking for my help to find that book? In here? Or did he want me to be changed by the story myself? He said that his life had been changed by my words. That's a big responsibility.
And what was the connection to the sleeper I hadn't been able to protect? This was wracking me. I knew I should have been able to help her, but what could my help have done? Maybe I could have hidden her somewhere deeper in the library, but then I would have been recorded. As it was I had to pretend to be a good worker, a loyal subject of the Marquesa, even if we were all to be discarded the moment we acted against her.
I didn't know what to do.
I still didn't know when we were assembled in the foyer for the Marquesa's arrival. There were more people in the library than I'd ever known were a part of it. I was happily shuffled off towards the back of the crowd. 
The Marquesa was borne in on a palanquin, and looked exactly the same as years before. She was imperious and serene, like nothing could possibly bother her. Not these stone circle hooligans, at least. She had that aura of big picture thinking where each of the people in her field of view meant practically nothing.
When she stepped down, our nervous leaders, most of whom I'd seen with about as much frequency as I'd seen the Marquesa, did ritual greetings and asked to what they owed the honour and all of that. It went on for some time, and as tends to happen my mind wandered.
The problem of the Circle was vexing me but I had a few ideas of where we might be able to find some more information within our walls. Deciding whether they'd be under secret societies or modern crime or even under some sort of geological heading (our cataloguers were somewhat idiosyncratic, as I believe I've mentioned) was my occupation until I realized everyone was looking at me.
"Excuse me," I said. "Could you repeat the question?"
Harriet's eyes bulged as my inattention was probably reflecting most poorly on her. She rushed in. "The question being our poor benighted Tome's way of addressing the fact that in this vale of tearful lies it is almost impossible for ones of our limited knowledge and perspective to know what happened at any point in our lives. She was most assuredly not implying any sort of limited knowledge on your part, some answer that she might give that you did not know already. She will be disciplined." Harriet wound up with a scowl at her stupid foreigner in the back.
The Marquesa kept a level gaze on me. "It is not a matter for punishment, librarian. I appreciate my time in Gallows specifically for the novelty of hearing incorrectness." She glided closer to me, the rest of the libraryfolk parting around her. "I want to hear your incorrect and meagre version of the events surrounding the sleeper you discovered."
I looked at her. She was still very beautiful. Very severe, very dark, very green. Her cloak looked heavy, which was useful in the chill library. I did my best to meet her gaze. It was difficult.
"I found a sleeper in the false zoology area. I tried to wake him up. Since I couldn't, I summoned a coworker. We escorted him out of the building. My supervisor noticed markings on the ground around the sleeper and recommended him to be hanged. As I understand it, he was."
The Marquesa's lip twitched. "Commendable, Tome-Librarian. That is exactly as precise a description as I would get in any less-unsavoury part of my realm. You may be getting the hang of being a proper citizen of the Sworn Lands. Is that something you desire?"
"No ma'am."
"Edify your compatriots why that might be."
"I'm not from here and would rather go home."
The Marquesa raised a finger and spoke to the room without breaking eye contact. "That is the bold incorrectness I savour here. Your library houses some exquisite lies, but that may be the best of all your forbidden treasures. Sadly, this lie was made to myself. Regardless of the laissez-faire attitude Gallows may have with the truth on a normal day, lying to the embodiment of power is a foolish thing to do. So no one forgets what kind of foolishness that is, I believe there is space on the gibbet."
No one was foolish enough to say "You can't do that!" since the Marquesa obviously could.
I panicked a moment, if only internally. I broke her gaze and lashed my eyes around the room. The realization that there was no way to talk myself out of this situation hit me hard. Perhaps I could hit her hard? She had her functionaries with her. There was no physical way to escape.
Go with the flow. I'd gotten out of practice but now was a time to improvise.
"The Obsidian Circle says your time is almost done. That a doom is coming. That was the writing on the ground."
"Thus speaketh the already condemned."
"They seek the last sword."
"You lie."
"I do. But they don't."The brochures were amateurish but not actually that bad.
Then I was seized by functionaries. They were large and strong and clasped me by the arms like they were built there. I didn't try to say anything more. Kicking and screaming wouldn't have added to the effect. I hoped there was something that had worked there, that invoking the group had done something, that there was further monitoring going on or that there was a sympathizer around. I fancied an explosion and a dramatic rescue. Lots of derring-do. But maybe that kind of thing doesn't belong in such a literal place as the Sworn Lands. The Obsidian Circle was probably just a prosaic bunch of students playing revolutionary and staying precisely on the good side of the law. Drama happened in the library of lies, not the arena of facts and history.
But strung from the gibbet I was not. Not right away at least. The functionaries brought me to our guard's shack and stood watching me. One stood watching me. The others stayed outside. Dana(?) had been evicted in a presumably unceremonious fashion long before the Marquesa arrived.
As I've probably mentioned, our guard did not have a strenuous job. She got rid of sleepers in the stacks and answered questions tourists might have. The tourist thing was just something I gathered from all the pamphleteering she had strewn about in the office. They were handmade little signs and posters, reproduced on a machine occupying a big chunk of her space. The functionary let me poke about a bit as long as I didn't head for the door. It also appeared she lived in the shack and that I'd been thinking of her by the wrong name (she's a Daria, not a Dana) for most of my time in the library.
I couldn't quite tell if the tourism thing was actually part of her job or just a hobby. There didn't seem to me to be any reason for an official position like that, but the idea of someone being such a proponent of Gallows that they'd spend their own time to try and paint it in the best possible light, well that seemed a dedication to lying that I would never have. The brochures were amateurish but not actually that bad. She must have been sent here so many years ago because she was a born advertiser, and doing that would bring her into an economy-wrecking part of the curve of Sworn Land society.
Reading about the wondrous kayaking one could do in the shattered waterways wasn't exactly the most diverting of pastimes, so once it was clear I wasn't about to be shaved and fitted for my new necktie I settled back into an uncomfortable chair.
The Marquesa slid in. I was warned because her functionary that was still in the room started standing just a little bit straighter ahead of time. I wasn't quite sure if they were extensions of her senses, controlled by her or were actually autonomous and reported in. They seemed large to be drones. The energy expenditure would have been so high. And this seemed a bit like she was trying to impress her boss.
"What did your little terrorist actually write?"
The lack of preamble made me gawp. Did she actually not know? But she would have interviewed Harriet already. I needed something to match up with her. Think think think. I needed to be oh so clever.