We woke and we hiked and we shiverred and we ate. I was never the sort of person to care too much for my appearance but after a couple of weeks of letting my snot and tears stream down a windblasted face together I was exceedingly close to becoming vain. No one ever saw us though, due to the broadcasts that we were coming. Pariahs on the road, the sort of humans no one could trust, sayeth the Marquesa.
Although to be honest I didn't know if it actually was the Marquesa who''d been saying these things. I'd never seen a sign  or even many birds that could be messengers. If SHadom was to be believed, and we were in the sworn lands after all, so I was pretty sure I could, these messages would be arriving very close in time to us. I should have been able to see what was going on. There should have been more clues in the sky. But all I saw were clouds.
I had never been in such a windy place. You may recall that I've gone a few places in my time. Many of those places were warm. I tried not to go to any that were colder than where I started. But this place was windy like I'd never known. It seemed wrong somehow that the wind would be blowing straight up at us as we descended so gradually. I joked with Shadom that if only it were steeper we could simply jump into the wind and let it fight gravity while we sailed to the sea on our tents. He did not appreciate my jokes.
I thought about the way humour must work in the sworn lands, if no one was allowed to say an untrue thing. I suppose it must be a more difficult and bleak place to do comedy. Everything would have to be true, but also unexpected. Never exaggerated, but I could imagine it would be full of cruelty. But what did I know. Maybe they loved slapstick antics. I suppose there's still truth in a woman falling over. But wouldn't she need to be injured some high proportion of the time so as not to be creating a systemic misrepresentation of what falling on your face was like?
I whirled on this for a while, thinking of the systems that must lie behind anything I needed my lies to lubricate in my life.
And then we found the capital.
I'd thought we'd been losing altitude steadily but the city was far below us. The edge of the plateau we'd been following loomed over water cradling an island. The water extended much further than I could swim to another island, and from our eyrie vantage point you could see the islands kept after each other in handfuls of concentric layers, like ripples.
"This isn't what my map looked like," I said. Which was true. There was far more land to the Sworn Lands. It didn't have a massive shattered archipelago in its heart.
"Your maps are full of lies," answered Shadom. He was already finding a path to descend. It was narrow and wound in a most inefficient circuitous route. I hoped we would reach the capital before night fell. 
I followed and marvelled at the hoofprints I saw in the dirt. Dirt that was a little more slippery than I would have liked at this height. I skidded and cursed and grabbed at the walls of the canyon we were entering. Shadom kept taking us away from the water as we descended. It was a great maw of land desiring to consume us without a shred of pity or joy. It merely waited for us to fall. For me to fall since Shadom had evidently lined his boots with glue before we began.
There was a not insubstantial chance that here was where I was to be killed for my crime. I supposed it was possible the Marquesa could have sent us all this way just so I could die in some open pit grave of naturally deceased people. There must be such a heap down below, where the upper inhabitants would toss bodies off the cliff to join the foolish assholes who tried to climb around down there.
How on earth did a donkey make this trip? The path was less than a hand's width across and it tileted like an alpine lodge roof. Even SHadom was reaching out and steadying himself occasionally now in the cracks and crevices. The wind was still whipping at us and the fine mist of rain was starting to sting.
I had to take off my pack and sit.
"Tome," Shadom said. "We cannot stop here. There is no shelter and you will not be allowed to sleep." He spoke very carefully. "You will die."
I looked at him, a few feet below me on the cockeyed path. I flopped backwards to rest on my pack. "Shadom, that sounded very much like you might be lying. Or be threatening to kill me."
He stared. "You are heading to the Marquesa's capital to be her pet. You are a lying bitch who cannot stop yipping about the horrors of the night. And you are wrong. You are barking all about the wrong thing. Nobody wants to kill you. Gallows is a place they want to install you. There's a home there for liars who can make themselves useful. It's a terrible foul place but they sent me to bring you there. If I do not do it I will have lied to the Marquesa herself in word as well as deed. There will be no way out of the hangman's house for me."
I looked up at Shadom and managed not to laugh or shiver. He seemed so serious. So young and so serious. And he was probably telling the truth. Most likely.
"All right Shadom, you're released from your obligation. You can just go if you want. You can say I'm dead."
He nearly screamed. "Of course I can't. These are the sworn lands. She knows all that happens here. She sees it all and hears it all and she will know what happened."
"How does she see?"
"It's in the dust and in the wind. Electromagnetic forces carrying energy to power information transfer systems. She captures it all. She truly knows everything that happens in her land." He didn't look at all conversational as the wind tried its best to pluck him from his position and fling him to that imagined corpse-pile down below.
Electromagnetic forces. Hm. The sworn lands weren't quite as backwards as I'd been assuming. 
I struggled to my feet and accepted Shadom's help putting my backpack on. "All right. Do you think you can bring me down the mountainside in one piece?" He nodded. "Then lead us right down to this Gallowtown if you can."
And over the next several hours he did.
***
Gallows has two parts to it. There is the bit called North Gallows, where Shadom and I arrived wet cold and windburnt. This is a gathering of fishing shacks, dry-goods-gone-damp stores, drinking holes and a ferry dock. There were people living there in drafty constructions one would feel a little bad putting your most fur-bedecked foxes in there.
Foxes might seem an odd comparison, but the town appeared overrun with the things. They were small, mostly kits, I suppose. But I couldn't tell what they could possibly be doing there. I watched a couple frolic near a gigantic piece of metal where the ferry was due to dock sometime. They seemed much more playful than anything else I'd seen since entering this stupid realm.
Shadom had argued with a few people about the advisability of getting the two of us across that night. Like most days on the road we were being debrived of a glorious sunset. The clouds were just too heavy and there was nothing for us to see. By the time the night turned solidly black, he'd learned that yes there was a ferry and that we'd be able to get aboard.
He kicked at one of the foxes still hanging around where I'd been trying to feed them.
"Gallows is a terrible place. I hate it. The place is filled with all the liars they needed to get rid of in the civilized parts."
"Everyone here is a liar?"
"Probably at this point they're all generations descended from the original liars but even so, they all get taught by their forebears and if you don't get taught anything better, why would you ever speak a word of truth. No here, they'll tell you the sky is red and your teeth are brown."
"Your teeth aren't exactly clean, Dom."
"Fuck off. It makes it bloody confusing. I don't know why the Marquesa would create all these rules if she's just going to have a whole city full of rule-breakers living here as happily as can be."
Shadom was obviously seeing a very different quality of life than I was in North Gallows.
"It'll be all right," he said. "The last time I came to Gallows I had a bad time of it. A few fights and a lot of thievery. There's nothing here for me. I just wanted to get back home to my lord. I still do, even with him being dead. And this fucking liar broadcast going on and on about me."
"What I don't understand is why the Marquesa makes her capital here. It doesn't make a lot of sense. Wouldn't she want to be surrounded by people she can actually trust? A city full of thieves doesn't sound like the place a leader could ever relax. And I hope you don't mind me saying, but this place doesn't seem like it has much wealth. It can't be at all comfortable."
"The Marquesa has her comfort. You'll see that, but I don't know why she likes to live out here. It wasn't always like this, not back in the days your maps are probably from. But this is where she's always been. There must be something that would make a person who could live anywhere live here."
We pondered that as the ferry groaned in at the dock.