"Tell us all about the library," the propagandists encouraged. "We want to know what it's like in the vaults where our words are preserved for time immemorial."
I hemmed and hawed until they produced a few portions of their homebrewed ales or lagers or spirits -- which they ended up being I was never quite certain, but it was brownish and made me feel a bit happier than I'd been moments before -- and then I began to discourse.
One of the things you need to know about the library is of course that not all the people working there are librarians. They only bestow that title on certain people.
"The most ferocious," said one purple-tinged liar. I've heard about hose.
"Then you've heard from Cretans like yourselves good sir. No, the Marquesa has a mor subtle play to things in the library. They divide the workers up between the people who carry books from place to place and make sure that everything is where it's supposed to be, and the people who do the 'cerebral' work of the institution. In theory this allows a better specialization of labour, so that the people charged with the simpler tasks need less training and the more highly trained workers don't waste their time in the same way. But the truth of the matter is that the arranging of materials on the shelves is not such a simple task and the cerebral workers have not actually been trained in all the manifest requirements of the modern" (and here I gave a slight cough) "library. No the Marquesa's library is a grand old mishmash of people being given different amounts of respect and prestige based on the whims of the Marquesa herself. She hates the low level workers beyond all comprehension. The only reason she keeps them around is to shit on them and make their lives miserable."
"But isn't the library a sentence? Doesn't it make sense for workers to be unfulfilled and unappreciated if they're there to be punished."
"That may be true. But once sentenced to work in the library the Marquesa lies all the time. There's a notion that one is lucky to be there, that no one deserves the good will and the cushy life that working in the library affords. I mean, surely I don't have big callusses or blisters on my hands from my labour there. In that way we are lucky. We have food and shelter and in this dangerous world maybe that's more than a liar is worth. I don't know.
"What I can tell you though is that being around the possibilities of different ways of arranging a life, one starts to think of alternatives. It's hard not to want to have something better when surrounded by different visions. I suppose that's the problem with the whole of the sworn lands. If we are only allowed to speak things that are true there is no way to change it."
"Exactly what I've been saying," piped up Gertrude the poet. "This is why we lie out here. We tell the stories and disseminate them, like profligate blooms. We are doing the essential work."
I caught Shadom's eye at that. He had an expectant, apologetic look around his eyes.
"I'm not sure that you are doing the essential work out here." The gazes of the propagandists dropped severely in temperature. "The Marquesa doesn't mind all of your lies and stories, not really. She is collecting them and keeping them in the library, safely contained. They're ready to trot out if anyone comes to do a proper research assignment on them but they are still segregated. They need to be sought out specifically. Now, I'm not an angel in all of this. I'm the kind of librarian and researcher that does enjoy seeking out the information that's being denigrated as unofficial or full of shit, so I created a space for them, a collection. But you know it seems to me that these stories need to be intermingled with the world of facts so that it's harder to tell which is which."
"I am unhappy with the authority given to the library here, to determine the truth value of different materials. I mean, the individual librarians are not to blame for being evil, but they are working in a system that has the potential.
"This is what I'm saying," said the purple tinged propagandist, "All is meaningless and we should not even touch the system that perpetuates lies masquerading as truth." There was a grumble that purple had a point. Shadom remained aloof so I continued.
"The system is terrible, I cannot deny that. The way the Marquesa assesses truth is flawed to a fatal degree. The methods of watching everyone and listening to everything said in the entirety of the sworn lands merely to ensure that things fit her definition of truth, which is a lie, yes that's a horrible way for the world to work. But, we in the library are not watched in the same way.
The propagandists laughed. "You're right at the heart of the lies! You're the pushers of the officially sanctioned works and records! You're the memory of the Marquesa."
"But memory can play tricks on a ruler when it tries to play tricks on the objects of its power."
I think you have your grammatical terms mixed up there.
"Regardless. The Marquesa doesn't care what those of us in the library do as long as it makes her look good outside the sworn lands. That is the key to it all. We can change official practices while she thinks we are following orders. But to do that we need to be able to know where we are going. Do you want to keep on scrabbling out here in the woods, forever marginal and without hope of changing anything.
We are changing things. You're here and we're being recorded for the future.
"You don't understand how the Marquesa's library works. I have my modern heresies project now, but I will move on. I can't stay there. It is killing me. I hope to leave the sworn lands altogether, though they can be comfortable for a person of a certain temperament, Shadom has pointed out that that temperament is not mine, at least not the me I want to be.
"Once I leave, the Marquesa will direct a project to reduce the collection for space requirements. She will want things to look new and shiny and your samizdat are not that polished so they will be discarded. You cannot trust the library as an institution of memory when the Marquesa will reshape that memory according to her own needs. No, what I say is that we need to infuse your heresies into everything, not just in the library but out in the lands. Not in the sense of flyers and propaganda littering the ground but embedding that shit in people's hearts.
"That will be illegal though, and the people will be sent to toil in the library
Yes, where they will become librarians and see the sausage that is the Marquesa's turht being made. You can't be there without it changing you somehow. And yes, some will become jaded and cynical, but I believe that what you need to fix the sworn lands is a wave of citizen liebrarians to counter the official words of the people that hate her. That is the project I am presenting to you. I don't know if it's what Shadom thought he was doing when he brought me here, and I don't know how surveilled I might be at this moment, so I've given both you and possibly the Marquesa the information as to my plans at once. It's foolish I know, but so be it. Fuck secret plans in a world based on hiding lies in truth. Fuck all of this."
The propagandists spent some time thinking and discussing. Shadom escorted me to a tent 
