The problem with my cover story, which I probably didn't even need to create, so little did anyone pay attention to me anymore, well the problem was picking Modern Heresies. It seemed that heaps of them were being carted in, far faster than they could be catalogued. This caused our cataloguers to be working far more than usual. Since everyone knew Tome was doing some bullshit Modern Heresies project they dumped everything into the category for me to deal with. They'd slap the most minimal label they could on a volume and toss it in my pile, jumbling everything together, showing complete disregard for the system I was trying to set up in my workspace.
I was trying to find history that would give me a hint where the Circle might be hiding, but I kept getting distracted by undated manuscripts trumpeting contemporary victories and dooms involving the Marquesa. Nothing was true, obviously. The only things I was thinking could be useful were the deep past stories where nothing had been tainted by the purposes of propaganda. Where there was no contemporary power to bend itself to. When you find one of those old stories everything seems so much simpler. It's easy in hindsight to see how a word serves a given power structure and is working against another. Distance and time.
Doing this study reminded me of why I'd come to the Sworn Lands in the first place. I was on a trip to see things and tell people what I thought they looked like. Apart from these books what was the last thing I'd seen that no one I talked to also saw every single day? The grand goal would be that I was saving all these things for you, reader. But I wasn't. I'd just grown lazy. It was so much easier to do the work of organizing and presenting other people's thoughts for them, because when nothing interesting comes of it, it's not really your fault for not being brilliantly insightful. We weren't in the library to be amazing, just to be mediocre. There's an ease to that, a lack of pressure but it means I had nothing driving me. There's a lassitude in a library that makes even the idea of careful observation anathema. We are pushed away from anything specific and true and to the pleasing and inoffensive.
Ha. Specific and true. In the Sworn Lands we'd given all of that responsibility to the Marquesa and her apparatus of drones and microphones, her many monitoring devices. That's the truth of the present, the tyranny of the present.
So I did my best to lose myself in history, but the present kept creeping in.
***
My research was going terribly. My coworkers were wondering when I would start to do some real helpful work for a change. That's when Shadom showed up in my office.
"What are you doing here?" I startled from where I had my head down in my going-nowhere work.
"That's what you said last time."
"I meant it then. I mean it now."
Shadom smiled. "You don't want to actually get into a debate about consistency and truth, Tome. Not here. Not now."
I grumbled at my only friend not taking me seriously, and caught myself. How did he see me? Were we friends? We'd shared a bit of travelling years ago. Shadom had been out in the world doing things while I'd been burying myself down here. At one point I'd been the mysterious foreign older woman, the person who'd seen so much and could shock the boy with casual counterfactuals. That wasn't the kind of thing to impress the man before me.
"Okay. Then how did you get here?"
"There are ways. You have a cafeteria. They bring things in that aren't books." He picked up one of my Modern Heresies. "This looks good. It one of mine?"
"I don't know. I thought you were an action dissembler, not an agitprop stooge."
He mimed being impaled. "Oh, Tome! You wound me so. Are you saying I've fallen? From my face-painting ways? You would rather I be making old men pretty again?"
"I don't know." I didn't know. He probably didn't need to be kept apart from the corrupting nature of untrue speech any more, but I had to admit that sincerity could be much more attractive. Not in a sexual way, but in a wanting to be with someone and share ideas.
But maybe that kind of truth by factuality was harmful to the idea of sincerity too. Especially with the mighty bootheel of power poised above each person trying to make sure they never exaggerated or spoke with any poetry. I wanted Shadom to be able to say things that weren't true but were beautiful. I'm saying that people have forgotten how to speak beautifully and this is the problem.
I pulled myself out of reverie. "No. It's better you're free of all that."
"And there's the rub, Tome. We're none of us free of anything. You remember the story you told me?"
"What happened to circumspection? I thought you didn't want to be caught"
"The Marquesa has her eclipsed areas of influence. The library is one of them. Her sensors don't work properly here. Or she has them turned off. Or something. She has to come in in person here. She has to put her eyeballs on the ground. Or rely on informers and spies. She owns all of you so that's pretty easy to handle. Nobody wants to be grabbed and splorked." He mimed being hanged. He stuck his tongue out further when I didn't react.
"But yeah, her ears aren't so good in here, so if I just show up in your little collection of pamphleteering then no one is the wiser. At least not to the degree that she'd be able to find us."
I frowned. "The Marquesa knows where you are, in your camp or whatever. She wants me to go with you." It's funny how being a liar didn't actually come easy to me. Even then when I probably should have at least given it a shot, I couldn't. Shadom needed to know.
"Fair enough. Let's go."
"She wants me to come with you and take back the oracle blade. She doesn't want you to have it any more. It's causing her problems."
"Of course it is. Telling the future is always going to cause problems! Especially when she's got the monopoly on truth out there. Well, there are bleak truths that are going to claim all of us long before she's done. People need to know those."
"But you're all liars. We're all liars."
"Sure, but the truth will set us all free. You just need a deeper understanding. We're good at that in the Circle. You should come with." He held out his hand. "Let's go."
I stood. "Okay. I want to see this sword that tells the future."
"It's strictly long game. And none of it is pretty."
"That sounds fine with me. Let me grab a couple of ancient heresies to carry me through." It had been a split second decision but it felt so right. There's nothing like setting it all ablaze and walking out on your life. I was about to see the world again. Couldn't feel better.
***
We didn't run through the library. We headed very methodically downwards, around to a door in the cafeteria I'd never noticed before. 