"Good morning!"
I was determined to let no one know the depths to which I had sunk. Three months into my routines at the library and I was still the picture of happiness. I greeted my coworkers with smiles and laughed about iniquities. It was a marvelous performance, if I do say so myself.
On this particular morning I had passed quickly through the break room towards the hole in which my senior colleagues and I were placed. I'd quickly tested out of the frontline scutworking zones, not because of any great aptitude for fixing broken spines and scowling at recalcitrant borrowers, but because I'd hit it off well with the boss, Harriet.
Now she was not the Boss Boss of the library, merely a departmental supervisor. She was ancient and almost bursting in her plumpness. It was evident that her mind had long ago been absorbed by other tissues - mostly deposits that buried her eyes so she was constantly trying to peer out of her face. She was also a screecher when she discovered something was not how she remembered the decree going down. Of course, those memories were of decrees from nigh-ancient times now. No one had actually wanted the tomes vigorously shaken (to remove the millilouse) for decades. Other methods were preferred.
The best source of information about those more preferred methods was Hedwig, a much younger woman who'd taken me under her wing. Now, this woman was still old enough to be my mother, but instead of having children she had tiny front-heavy dogs who she'd once rescued from a house fire while leaving her husband to burn to death.
"And the lesson is you never should marry a smoker, my dear! Though you never know exactly when they'll start!" And she laughed and laughed, reminding me not inconsiderably of the most witchy kind of witch. But witches probably have less joy in themselves than Hedwig did. I enjoyed her company dearly. Or at least tried to make her feel I did. I would have been very sad to make her feel sad.
Now Harriet had taken a shine to me, and really, for the entire time this was the case I didn't know why. I asked The Bruce and he shrugged. I asked Lavinia and she thought it must just be because I was a good worker, but she'd harrumphed a tiny bit too much while she was getting those words into her mouth. There was something going on.
On this morning I swooped into Harriet's office and grabbed a stack of musical scores she'd made me responsible for. Harriet was there already, sipping her tea.
"What do you have in the stack today?"
It was mostly vocal ensemble stuff. I didn't recognize any of it but it seemed to be the kind they sing in schools with a couple of bright soloists and a heap of indifferent backups. I shrugged in an 'it's all just work to me' kind of way, but she bounced up out of her chair to grab at things.
"This takes me back so nicely," she said, blocking my way from the office. "I was quite a singer back when the days were long and the fields were green. Here, let me show you!"
She had one of the books rolled around backwards in her hand. It seemed to be pretty old and at least a little too fragile for that kind of treatment. Harriet then began to sing from the page.
Her voice was screechy and warbly and she'd somehwere learned that vigorous baby-shaking tremolos and vibrato were the key to artistic singing. I won't lie to you though; the woman had some pipes. Our windowless walls could have bowed outwards slightly when she was letting loose.
She stopped momentarily and I thought it was time to get out there to work, but instead she said, "Come Tome. I need your counterpoint. It's not nearly the same with only one voice. Let us duet."
I gawked. She waited for me to put down the stack of scores and stand alongside her. She put her finger helpfully at the very bottom of the first line of the song. Mercifully we were facing a wall, not coworkers. She began, and momentarily I joined in on the alto line.
Now, I have sung before. As a child I grew up singing. My mother and her sisters all had the exact same singing voice which was a much less lungy version of Harriet's. I was capable of following a tune with the notes laid out in front of me. She was my boss who liked me. I was ding my best to fit in. So I sang.
Three measures in she stopped me. "No no sing your part."
"I was. I'm an alto. It's not glamorous or anything but..."
"But men don't sing alto."
"I'm sure some do, but that's kind of beside the point. I sing alto."
She looked at me. "You're not a man?"
"I am not."
"You're sure?"
I was.
She did a little bit of a fish face, gawping for air.
It occurred to me then she may have thought she was seducing me over the previous weeks. Which is a totally skeezy thing for the boss to do, even if I wasn't in this quasi-incarcerated state. So I wasn't too sad when her cheeks flushed so completely I worried her skin might split.
I gathered up the scores and left her office. It was a little shocking, but I was rolling with the possibilities I'd blundered into and around. Did she do this to every one of her supervisees? It certainly explained a bit about why no one else seemed to respect her.
I was lost in my thoughts when Harriet emerged from the office. "Attention everyone!" She screamed. "Departmental individual meetings begin now!"
My colleagues (there were 8 of us in total) put down the tools of their tasks and trudged over. Harriet grabbed The Bruce and pulled him into her office. Before she closed the door she eyeballed the rest of us. "Stay put."
I had my most confused look on my face. Hedwig explained. "She wants to have a meeting about whatever she just did." Hedwig waved down my explanation. "It was probably something very stupid. She does very stupid things. Instead of apologizing she needs to have a meeting where she can explain why she is in the right and the person who made her feel stupid is in the wrong. Since she's the person who caused all the stupidity on evidence it turns into a very uncomfortably defensive kind of excoriation. And she can't call an actual meeting because she is terrified we will gang up on her. So we'll do this for the rest of the day, getting nothing at all done, because she will be ducking out here in the middle of her own sentences to make sure no one has left."
Lavinia leaned in. "One time we had one of these meetings because Harriet had misunderstood a question from a user and told the user we had a dinosaur dig on the roof. No one has any idea what the original question could possibly have been."
"The Bruce has some theories," said Hedwig.
"Theories. But the point of the matter is that she's going to be going on about this for, well, basically as long as you're here. You're now the girl who made her feel stupid for thinking you were a man."
I frowned. "This is so stupid."
"Welcome to the library."
"But isn't a library supposed to be less stupid?"
"This isn't some real life library Tome. This is a gathering of materials most people don't care about and will never come to make use of. Same with the people. We're the kind of folks that the Sworn Lands don't need anymore because they can be sure of the truth value of everything. Everything is being checked against the records out there. All this stuff in here is the shit that can't be verified. It's all just hearsay in old ink. The real world out there is measurable. We've got scrolls full of dragon-puke."
"That doesn't make any sense," I said. "If this is all useless then why doesn't the Marquesa just destroy it, toss it in a landfill, burn it or something? There's no need to make an ugly building and guard it with us."
"That's almost true. There've definitely been rumblings about that in the past. For a while the Marquesa used this library as the symbol of all the things nobody could believe. Some people talked about how having a release valve is good for a society. Evidently there used to be days were the king was a fool and everyone could shit on the queen? Something like that. But then a few more people learned a few more implications of some old-timey practices, like killing off your king every so often to rejuvenate the realm. No one in charge wants to hear that sort of thing."
"That's when the world broke apart. A big hammer right on the library here. It broke the Sworn Lands in pieces, killed a countless number. But the library survived. Drove some things deeper and made a lot of things more difficult. Then you've got this rump-end of a bunch of caretakers waiting for the hammer to fall again, or the pressure from down below to overwhelm it.
"The way I see it, this library's just the cork in the bottle of all the resentment and pressure these lands are under. It'll go sometime. The Marquesa is not smart for leaving incompetents like us in charge of it. We're less smart for staying. But what the hell else are you going to do?"
"At least there's reading material for the end of the world."