Rowing is not the kind of thing work in a library prepares you for. 

Back in the stacks my hands got dirty, yes. I prided myself on working for a living, not being stuck up behind some desk never getting dirty. "Look at my knees! That's what's wearing out!" I was proud of my battered knees, my worker-style pants. I couldn't wear clothes that needed pampering, oh no not me, friend of the working class.

Rowing though, ye gods. The wood was rough. My hands had no calluses. The heat of using them to work stoked up quickly. This wasn't a job that used the fingers, my dexterity and any cleverness I might think I had was useless. No more of the appearance of workmanliness to get me through. I'd thought that griminess was enough, that it meant something laborious. Somehow that since miners were filthy after working hard, if I was filthy we were alike. Even after I started to work up a sweat and the bookdust got slimy and slick, all those old skin cells, it didn't behave like a lubricant. I'd hoped it would.

I also hoped Shadom would take a turn rowing, but he was content in his role as navigator. He kept us near the shore, which seemed unwise to me, what with people presumably following us. Except they wouldn't be following us, not if the Marquesa wanted me to succeed. And I'd told Shadom as much, hadn't I? Why was everyone playing these games all around me? Well, I could get that figured out eventually. Maybe when my hands felt better.

In any case I'd have been happier leaving the shore behind. And to be honest, the shore wasn't much of one. It was all ragged chunks of concrete, fallen from the retaining wall. I wondered if it's still a retaining wall when it's keeping a moat out, and it pained me a bit to think of my reference collection left behind.

"Do you have any books out there, or just magic swords?"

Shadom grinned. "You've probably read everything we've got already. Modern heresies, right?"

Well well, we were heading to a land of self-published drivel. The lunatics running the asylum. I can't say I've been