# Tome | Marquesa | Shadom

Tome - Marquesa
Reluctant servant
Need: a vote on the only thing that ever mattered

Marquesa - Shadom
Domineering mother - sullen resentful teen
Object: 

Shadom - Tome
co-conspirators
Location: The hidden stacks in the Hangman's Library

Tome grew up in LibertyStation. She was born the only child of poor parents who believed in the dream of building something amazing in that world. There are skyscrapers and everything going up and they figured she too can make something of herself. She did not. In primary school she was sullen and resentful. She started to consume information early and spotted false rearrangements. Convenient rearrangements. She wanted desperately to do a good job and to be liked, not by her instructors but byher peers, who she always assumed were lying about how much they liked anything else. Fundamentally she became very sensitive to falsity. In secondary education she became hugely disillusioned with the fact that everyone was lying all the time, that the entire society of LibertyStation (which her parents had been forced to leave when she was also young) was built on lies. Her indoctrination into the Void Collective came as a disaffected teenager. All of her perceptions that all everyone did was meaningless rearrangements of ones and zeroes came to a head and in her breakdown the notion that they were all fiction was fact became strangely comforting. She consciously refuses to participate in the illusion of scarcity in any of their worlds.

Now Tome has truly embraced the indifference of the void. She has a deep nihilist thread running through her that allows her to be callous and attempts to unravel puzzles. Since the revelation she's been much more blasee about lying so this voyage into the Sworn Lands will be like a mirror version of her desires.

She sees the void collective as the only meaningful aspect to existence. They are too far gone from the past for it to make any difference and making something for the future for this stupid spinning rock is all they have.