"I need you to tell me how to make my ferry."

The speaker caused Hateswords to look up from his book.

In the Marqesa's library, in most modern libraries really, librarians did not in fact read books all day every day. It was a misconception far older than the realm really. Most librarians are kept too busy answering questions and creating things to do in the library or updating the records. No real proper self-respecting librarian had time to merely read books. Except Hateswords, who was exceptional. And a librarian.

The speaker was a mountainous man, all crags and loftiness combined with solidity and roots. "You know me. I can't use these things. You need to make me a plan to build my ferry."

Hateswords suppressed a sigh. "Sarfro. We've talked about this. I can't make your plan for you. There are too many unknowns. We don't have information like that here. I don't know how much anything costs, especially how much the people who will be building it will charge you. You need to contact people. Actual people. They will be able to tell you, and tell you the truth. If I don't know, like off the top of my head, nothing here is going to help you." Hateswords turned back to her book. "We've talked about this so many times."

Sarfro, the mobile mountain who had in fact wrestled a little bit under a similar sobriquet before ending up in the den of lies, was not put off. "You are good at finding information. I need information. I cannot find it in here. Please."

And that was when Bing arrived, panting a little bit. "You're late," said Hateswords, whom Bing ignored. 

"Hi Sarfro, what can we do for you today?"

"My ferry. I need a new plan."

"Oh man, that's a big one right?" Bing began scanning the rooms and shelves that surrounded them. "Let's see what I can find to help."

Hateswords didn't quite roll her eyes.

The library of course was not merely one room. This was just the room with the information desk in it and that happened to have some information which someone at some point had decided would be somewhat useful. There was a nigh infinite amount of additional information that was not in this room, that was part of the library and was also defined by someone as somewhat useful. In the Hangman's Library, though, "use" was a bit trickier to define than in some places. Nonetheless the room was filled with tomes and binders and paperbacks and screens (and so many screens that looked like books), more than enough to overwhelm most of the inhabitants of the Sworn Lands who had the misfortune to enter.

Bing busied himself scouring the shelves while Sarfro waited and Hateswords read. He grabbed ladders and scurried up them to retrieve great dusty crates of leather and wood. After a few minutes of this he brought back three of them and deposited them on a small cart next to Sarfro. "Here you go. Like Hater said we can't do it for you, but these are the best resources we've got for your project. Do you want some help with them in your space?"

There was some back and forth arguing over whether Bing could actually create the plan himself but eventually Sarfro trundled his books to a far corner of the library and he flopped down on the workers' side of the information desk.

"What you do is far more detrimental to the state of learning, knowledge and Mister Sarfro himself than anything I fail to do." Hateswords hadn't looked up from her reading. "Entered into the record for the 327th time."

Bing shrugged. "He feels like we've done something. It's true though, those were the best resources we have for building fairies." He grinned.

