# The Void

A rock is spinning through the void much faster than you could throw it. Making certain assumptions about the construction of your preferred physical incarnation relative to accustomed environments, it is safe to say the rock is much heavier than you could lift. It is even safer to say the rock is much smarter than you.

The rock was designed by people of one sort or another, very smart people, as a means of communicating. When you throw a pebble down a well that is communication. Ideally you hear back a gentle plonk and splash and if you're careful about it you can learn something about how your universe is arranged. In some more fanciful scenarios you awaken a beast from the depths and it causes you great anguish. But still, you have communicated, even if the last thing you said was "Arrrgh!"

The people who designed the rock -- which is not as irregular and misshapen as you may assume from the word -- packed into it a power core that would last for billions of years, and raw materials to maintain whatever its inhabitant needed to keep itself busy. 

They hoped to see it again some day when both the people and the rock had changed. But they didn't hold out a lot of hope.

It's okay if you think you've heard this story before. It is an old one, one of the great old ones: a story of people saving a bit of knowledge and sending it away while the home fires burned.

***

There aren't any actual dials or flashing lights in the rock. If there were they would start doing their best to alert the inhabitant the instant it noticed what was going on outside.

The designers of the rock were doing their best with the physics they had when they sent it off. The rock had developed better physics since then to save its life, but even with all that self-improvement its path occasionally, very occasionally, tossed up a wrinkle.

A million years ago (the rock was more precise, but you probably don't care) something had happened to a star and because of that happening other things happened and then boom you had a nebula. That nebula had affected many things, but there was a star the rock had overlooked.

In some scales of measurement the overlooked star was vast distances from the rock's path, but in the scale the rock was used to this was a possible catastrophe. The rock was heavy, but not so heavy the basic physics that even its designers understood wouldn't grab the rock and lash it in an orbit of this star.

What to do?

What to do?

***

