We hiked away from Fandei. I say we, but this did not include the Marquesa. She was the kind who got carried and would be following along behind us. The we in question were myself and the makeup boy Shadom.
"What is it like living here, Shadom?" I enjoyed his manner of speech, which seemed more elevated than a boy so young's would normally be.
"I don't know where you mean ma'am. I have never lived on this road."
This sort of obfuscation by extreme literalism was something I grew quite sick of on the road, and in this account I'm going to eliminate most of it. Just imagine that every time we're in dialogue it takes four tries for me to word the question precisely enough for him to feel comfortable answering it. I'll be putting down the question I intended to ask though, so I apologize when it doesn't quite connect.
In this instance I eventually got him narrowed down to his actual home.
"I grew up in a place with five siblings. There was enough food for none of us to be too stunted. My siblings left and I left and then I did not return home again."
"Your mother must be sad about that." He looked askance at me, though I believe he was growing somewhat used to having to correct me.  
"You do not know my mother," he replied.
I wanted him to talk about what it was like to grow up in a place where only truth was allowed to be spoken. It seemed intolerable to me. If you weren't hiding things from everyone around you, only to dribble them out at a more oportune time of your own choosing it seemed life would be far more difficult.
Shadom didn't want to talk about any of that. He preferred to say things like "The clouds are moving from the west" or "My stomach is making noises." He wasn't against similes at all, but metaphor was something to be avoided. He was quite tiresome really. 
The Marquesa had given me him as a travelling companion mostly because he knew the place we were headed. The Marquesa had not told me where this place was, nor did she say exactly what was happening to the rest of the lord's household in Fandei. I would have thought the fact that the lord was dead, regardless of whether it was murder or not wouldn't have made all the familial issues around his daughter's wedding and inheritance disappear. But off we were whisked. I imagine we were no longer of any use to the folk of the town, being a careless-tongued foreign woman and a boy who painted their leader. If the Marquesa had all the power she intimated, I was surprised we'd not been killed for her stew already. Instead we'd been sent away, deeper into the heart of the Sworn Lands.  We had a very long way to walk.
"Do you know any stories, Shadom?"
"I know a great number of histories and lineages."
"Of course you do. Are any of them full of adventure appropriate for us to share along this road?"
He thought for several moments before replying as I knew he would. "No."
"But history can be very exciting Shadom. You must have some good history of bad lords or wicked stepsisters or something."
"I could tell you about my cousin's granary that collapsed."
"Did it happen in the mist darkened past and change the course of nations?"
"Not that I could tell."
"Then let's let that pass."
"I suppose you would like to hear a story of the Obsidian Circle, but since they are not true recollections from the Five Sword Land they aren't really appropriate."
"And the Five Sword Land was what?"
Shadom looked over his shoulder and checked the shrubbery before he answered. "That is what this place was before it became the Sworn Lands."
I nodded and beckoned for him to proceed.
"I do not tell those stories. They are not for someone such as me."
I sighed and we kept on walking.
That night as we set up our small but well-provisioned camp I asked him again for a story of the Obsidian Circle. He stared at the fire and did his best to ignore me.
"What are you afraid of?" I asked. "We're in the middle of nowhere and the only person who'll hear you is a thrice-damned liar who's old enough to be your mother so you have no need to impress her."
He was stoic and bore my comments without flinching.
"Well then, I will have to tell you a story. It's not of the Obsidian Circle, but it'll be close. I'd only heard one story of the Five Sword Lands, and honestly, I didn't even think of it being the same as this place we're now trudging across. Do you want to hear it?"
He stared into the fire. "If it's true."
I rolled my eyes. "I didn't witness it or anything, but it's a story I learned a couple of years ago. I'll admit it doesn't sound like a true story, sounds a bit contrived, but you never know. Especially with old stories. My reteilling will probably make it even further from the truth. But I'm willing to take the risk. Do you want to hear it?"
He said yes and I began.
***
Campfire tales are even worse than drunken boasts for their perceived accuracy at the best of times. So I was not expecting much of a response from Shadom. I'd lied to him about the story being true. Anyone could see that. I was just another disappointment and affirmation that the sworn lands are the only place where one can be sure of what one says, that foreign women are liears, that he could not trust a person like me for anything.
Instead: "I know that story. It is true." Then he wrapped himself in a blanket and fell right to sleep. I watched the lying stars swirl.