The body sprawled before me. I put my giraffe book down and stared. Black chalk surrounded it. It was asleep. He was asleep. For some reason it already felt less like a human being. Normally when a sleeper was found the shelver would find someone, but me, I was more senior than a shelver. I could do something about this myself, and the circle around it made me feel like I should. What was the connection? You know because eventually I did, but at that moment I had no real idea why I already felt complicit in a crime. A further crime in these parts, maybe even a crime I'd have recognized were I back in whatever world I came from.
It's a measure of how long I'd been in Gallows at this point. Before coming to the Sworn Lands I's been a woman who moved on at any opportunity. My home was a memory, and most of that memory was of how much I wanted to see other places as soon as I could. I didn't want to be stuck here looking at a body.
But it wasn't a body yet. He was a person.
I needed to get him out of there.
I shook him by the shoulder. He stank and his clothes felt somehow greasy. Though he wore layer upon layer it appeared his sweat had been soaking through. For years. He didn't respond.
"Come on," I muttered. There wasn't much of a chance that someone would come by but it wouldn't be too wonderful for me to be leaning over the body conversing with him. I caught myself. If this is all being monitored anyway, I just had to behave the way anyone else would, as though I wasn't guilty of anything. And I didn't know what I was guilty of just yet so maybe that would be the best. Just follow the procedures and stay below the notice of anyone paying attention.
I gave him one last shake at the shoulder, and confrimed he was just sleeping. I circled around him to check that, and in so doing I knelt on the words. I'd seen them and so did the eyes of the ineffable but maybe we'd be able to keep it out of focus if it didn't look too interesting afterwards. I shifted position several times, dragging feet across the chalk in as natural a fashion as I could manage.
I put on my stern face, the don't fuck with me mask you need on occasion. "You have to wake up and get out of here. Come on dude." The sleeper still didn't respond. I stood up and headed to the far end of the row to begin looking for someone else. 
It wouldn't be that out of character for me not to go right to Harriet with this. After our initial favouritism and subsequent embarrassment, we'd settled into a mild disdain for each other. I tried my best not to have anything to do with her at all. 
Lavinia and Hedwig were technically my peers by this point, but their greater experience was still who I turned to instead of my supervisor. That made sense to me, but I'm not sure how it felt to them. I got the impression that they thought of Harriet as our superior, whereas that last bit of my incarceration mindset forced her into a warden role. Sometimes I wondered if my coworkers had ambitions within the library. Maybe they wanted to become the warden some day. I knew that I could do a better job than Harriet. The scary thought was that this is how ambition might begin.
Regardless of that I was glad to find Lavinia a short walk away. I explained I had a sleeper and asked if she could help me get him out of there. She agreed and when we rounded the row to where the sleeper lay I was glad to see the chalk looked greatly disarrayed.
But then before we could get to him he began to drag himself up on one elbow. His eyes fixed on mine and he was about to speak when I burst out "Oh my! He's awake! Let's get him out of here!" I hoped that covered up whatever he was about to say as I got close and offered him a hand up. "You can't sleep in the library sir. We need to get you out of here."
He nodded at me, a little confused. He flashed me another paciky look when Lavinia caught up and stood at his other side. She asked "Can you walk?" I shrugged at his questioning glance. He nodded, and we got him on his way.
My plan was to get the sleeper out to the front door and ask our guard to make sure he got out of there safely. I don't know if that would have worked. I hadn't spent much time building a relationship with our guard. I didn't even really know her name. It might have been Dana.
We only had to cross the wide open lobby when Harriet found us.
"What's going on here?" she squealed.
"We found a sleeper," I said. "He's a little disoriented so we're just getting him out of here. There's no problem."
Harriet inhaled twice quickly, the way a child does before a tantrum. I tried to get the sleeper to follow me out, but he didn't catch the hint when Lavinia didn't move.
"A sleeper! The day before the Marquesa arrives? What was he doing here?"
I coughed. "He was sleeping. Like sleepers do. You know. We're just going to get him outside. No worries, Harriet." I probably shouldn't have used her name. I probably should have been more deferential, used some sort of title or honorific. But I didn't.
"Show me where he was!" she said to me. She held off Lavinia to stay there with the sleeper, who'd been trying to sneak away.
Harriet and I headed back to zoology.
"That is a black circle! There are words there!" 
Now that suspicious eyes were on the scene, I felt a lot less pleased with my obfuscation job. "Words? Really?"
She stepped right in and peered without kneeling. "You messed this all up, but there was something. Why weren't you more careful?"
"I guess I was just surprised. I'm sorry. I thought the main thing was to get the sleeper awake and out. Isn't that what we always do?"
She nodded as she peered. "Yes, but you should have followed the procedure. There are plans for black circles."
That was surprising. "Specifically?" She frowned up at me. "I mean, if it was a red circle that wouldn't have a procedure?"
"Not a specific one. Does that look like it says 'doom'?"
"Why?"
She rubbed her nose, scrunched up her face and looked more human than I'd ever noticed before. "You aren't from here. I forget sometimes, with how well you've fit yourself in." My hackles raised but I tried not to show it. "There's a group, a radical group that uses violent language and tactics. The Marquesa's been dealing with them for as long as she's been the Marquesa. Terrorists or narchists or something. This looks like them."
Harriet headed back towards the lobby. I tagged along. This was a problem. If this was something of interest to the Marquesa she'd definitely be checking her all-seeing memory. I hoped I had been subtle enough, that I wasn't going to be caught up as complicit.
We got back to Lavinia. Harriet said to her "Take him out to Daria. He's Obsidian Circle. Or close enough. Tell her to be quick and don't put him near the middle." Lavinia gaped for just a moment before setting her jaw. The sleeper's eyes went wide at the Obsidian Circle mention, though he must have known he'd be identified as such. He drew a black circle on the ground, and enough of a message to make any other interpretation difficult.
As Lavinia led him away he got his voice back. It was quieter and younger sounding than I would have guessed. "The end is known. It's coming. Soon."
Harriet flapped her hand at him and Lavinia dragged him outside. Harriet asked me if I was all right to go back to work. I was. She sent a shelver to clean up the black chalk.
I didn't exactly put it out of my mind, but my consideration of the afternoon's events extended mostly to the meaning of black crcles and where I might have heard that phrase before. It was only that evening when I went out for a walk that it came back to me. It came to me when I saw our sleeper's body hanging from the gallows that gave our town its name.