The library was not a well-used resource in Gallows. I've described how it sat in the bottom of a pit. It had no windows, was not welcoming in any way. Describing it as the cork in a bunghole was unflattering but true. There is no reason to visit the thing that plugs a hole. Unless you're trying to sneak something down the hole.
There's an argument to be made that that was our purpose working in the library. People brought us materials to discard of, and instead of doing that we kept them. It was a dumping site for illegally untrue documents mostly, though occasionally a recording would slip through.
We collected records of taxes that had never been paid (which was a lie to the Marquesa so you knew the perpetrators of that had been executed), and travelogues of places that had never existed. I read those with great interest. We had countless stories of animals that could talk and wore clothes of their own volition. There were huge cavernous levels devoted to lives of people who'd never been born and would never die. I found delicate depictions of the insides of fantastical creatures and stars, sometimes with incredibly detailed backstories of how they came to be. 
And none of it was true so all of it was... I'd be tempted to say dangerous, but I'm not sure that is the case. It's easy from my vantage point now to romanticize the work, to say that all of us librarians were some sort of heroes dealing with the dangerous and noble cast-offs of a society I found repugnant. If that was the case we'd be hugely romantic figures finding value where the land found none to be.
I feel like there'd have been an easier case to make for that if the roles were reversed. If the Marquesa had made her realm a land of falsehoods, perhaps masquerading as truth, and we were the defenders of the accurate information, the only things a person could rely on in a shifting world, we'd be obvious heroes. Then we were the ones who'd be dangerous.
Being a guardian of conspiracy theories and inane stories about killer dogs did not feel noble. But it wasn't supposed to, not for me at least. I was in the library as a punishment after all.
At first most of my job was to take in the heaps of materials and put them in appropriate places. I came in in the morning and found some stuff in a box, then wandered my way through the labyrinthine vaults to put it with other similar stuff. Lies about pyramids and the alien beings who built them went near the lies about monoliths and the alien beings who built them, but far far away from the lies about which leafless vegetable was all you needed to eat to prevent all disease. All of the lies about people got put in one area, but in the bowels of the building somewhere there were people sorting through the materials to determine if I was to put things next to each other by who was doing the lying or who was being lied about. I spent a few weeks trying to assemble theories based on the evidence I had but eventually gave up and put things where I was told they should go. 
It became relaxing, meditative in its boringness. I was an efficient drone. We were given several breaks each day, upon which I retreated into a room with some chairs and read something from the stacks. I suppose that at one point the collections of materials were called stacks because things were stored vertically, but the modern nature of the hangman's library meant we did things horizontally here.
I learned the intricacies of the job quickly. It was hardly difficult. There were some novel techniques and specialized tools of the trade, but they were simple. I had lots of time to let my mind wander.
I didn't use the mind-wandering time to deal much with my coworkers. Hedwig aside, they weren't people I had much use for. One woman had been doing this job for thirty years. (At this point I wasn't even thirty years old.) She was slow and inefficient. She spent her breaks staring at a table and chewing her lunch, answering questions, but little else. I got the impression that she was like me, sent here as a punishment, or perhaps she just had no other place she could go. She had the scent of "re-education" about her. Like her lying had been compulsive and now it had finally been destroyed along with any will she'd ever had to live. We shared five words in our time as coworkers. 
A man about my age was aggressively understanding and nurturing. The kind of person who asks what you're really feeling and if there's anything you need, you know, emotionally, when you've been acquainted for mere minutes. I spent a couple of days deciding if I was going to become his friend, but eventually declined. He cursed and spat at me when I told him I would prefer to keep reading my book. I avoided eye contact with him afterwards, and counted myself lucky he did nothing more than glare at me.
There were others too. We were the army of faceless drones stocking the shelves. Some were smarter, some were taxing their brains to the utmost to find the correctly labelled spot to place their current stack of lies.
Now, when I say stacks of lies, I realize I've been a bit obfuscative. This was the preferred nomenclature of the Hangman's Library though. We didn't speak of fiction and nonfiction. The concept of untrue stories having any sort of truth value wasn't something that really belonged in the Sworn Lands. If you think that sounds an untenable way to run a society, I'd agree.
Shelving these books and seeing what was happening to them made it clear to me the lack of discernment going on in the determination of value. We were taking in lies and literature and calling them an equivalent. This was not the kind of place I could possibly be comfortable. All the books I'd brought with me for my voyaging were not bland factual accounts, or even gripping factual accounts. They were stories. They were important.
But one of the things that happens when you travel, when I travel at least, is a putting aside of my personal values in judging the culture you find yourself in. It's a going with the flow kind of approach, like when we drifted down the river and the complaining Counter was murdered. I was treating this as an expedition into the library, not a permanent destination. I was sure I wouldn't truly be stuck down in the shelving ranks for all time.
Whie I was working down there, I was living in a basement room. I say basement, but as it was an annex of the library and attached by tunnels, there were many layers of library below it. My room's ceiling was such that standing on tiptoes put my head up against it. I had a bed and a toilet and a desk and a cupboard and a shelf. It was a cell, but one I was allowed to leave. I kept most of my things in my travelling sack, and really, I enjoyed the simplicity of it all. It felt like a temporary space, which alleviated a good amount of the tension I'd been feeling about this whole permanent role in the library thing Shadom had told me about.
I didn't see Shadom any more. He had left me soon after arrival. I took many walks around Gallows keepingEvidently the Marquesa returned and departed many many times without my noticing.  my eyes open for him, but he either wasn't in the town any more or he was avoiding me. I learned about the recognition of the weird regular people you find when you stay in one place for a decent amount of time. 
I'd tried to generate that kind of knowledge in my previous travels, by staying for a week in a place. I would have given many things to be spending this enforced non-travelling time in a place that was less cripplingly boring than Gallows.
You see, Gallows didn't have a huge number of people, and because of that there weren't a large number of places catering to people enjoying their anonymity. The inhabitants had their own problems and weren't much interested in entertaining me. If they could go anywhere else, I imagine they would have left. But this was the only place for thieves cheats and liars in the Sworn Lands. Not everyone can just pick up and go off somewhere else, especially not with enough people so they don't have to form a community with whoever they find at the other end. And then, this being the Sworn Lands the surveillance would keep track of where you were going. 
I didn't have a good notion of how tight the Marquesa was keeping her fist around her populace. If I left, as a person sentenced to the library as a punishment, I was pretty sure there would be some kind of response to keep me here. But would there be for the people who were born here?
Gallows-folk weren't really big on social or other sorts of mobility. I didn't really talk to my coworkers but when I was stopping in the little shops I'd hear conversations between people who'd been in the town for generations. It sounded like going back the way I'd come from wasn't what people did in Gallows. The people who left were either hanged or they went west, into the shattered islands scattering out over the sea. In both cases they were spoken of in hushed tones and oblique words. It seemed overprotective to do that to avoid the surveillance, but who was I to say?
Evidently the Marquesa returned and departed many many times without my noticing. When I learned this I realized that I wasn't some important cog in her plans. I was not going to be executed immediately. I was just another nobody in the Gallows. 
I embraced that role. I passed my time, thinking of nothing, merely existing. I spent a good amount of time reading the things I found in the library. 
I wasted three years that way before Shadom returned.