"I'm surprised you'd need to ask, Marquesa. I was under the impression that you knew all that happened in your lands. That your attentions could never be divided."
"I will not expose my throat to you."
"I'm not asking for that."
"You want to see my weaknesses. In a land of truth, my only weaknesses are liars. You see my liars every day. That's why you're here. I suppose you are the weakness. You are the crust on my shoe that..."
"But if we are your weak points doesn't the fact that we're all liars, convicted of such and terrifying to the rest of your fragmented people, make any threat we'd be trivially easy to minimize?"
"Perhaps."
"But perhaps not." I was on a roll now and seeing how this could play. If people valued truth in all its forms if some liar was trustworthy about an important issue, that could lead to a new permissiveness around the whole notion of truth and falsity. "So why do you keep us here at all?"
She actually looked repulsed. "Are you asking why I don't commit genocide? Is that the kind of monster you think I am? Is that the kind of things you think a person is truly capable of? What kind of terrible place to you hail from?"
"I don't want to kill anyone. Obviously. I'm a person. There are larger problems I have to keep in mind, yes, but I do not wish to have anyone die. I want everyone to be safe and happy in their reality."
"The sleeper in the circle said that doom was upon you, upon all of us."
"The sleeper in the circle was correct, as far as we know."
"Doom. Awfully portentous word."
"Awful and protentous indeed. But non-specific. We are under the impression that the Obsidian Circle has a means to determine the specifics of this doom. They have sent us fragments and scraps of prophecy. Bullshit, we thought. Then it began coming true."
"Were they about the ends of things?"
"They were. We believe they have an oracle blade. Do you know what that is?"
"I've heard the story."
"Of course you have. You're foreign." She smiled for an instant before remembering herself. "Find me the oracle blade and you won't have to die here."
"I thought you didn't believe me. I thought my lie was exquisite."
"I did not, and your lie was. It covered a lot of pain. It was what you wish you wanted but don't. When I grant you your free passage out of the Sworn Lands you won't go home. You can't stand the idea of going home. Going anywhere to stay."
I thought about this. I thought she was wrong. I said "Where do you want me to go?"
"Just go find it. The Shadom child should be able to get you an audience with the Circle. They're out in the broken islands. Find him, obtain the sword and return. You should be able to do that."
She stood to leave the shack. "You get to tell them how it came to be you're not swinging. And don't try to run without bringing my blade. You know I see you everywhere." She swept out with a flourish.
***
I strolled back into the library where everyone stood in debriefing mode. Harriet saw me and screamed.
"I'm not a ghost. Is that what you're thinking?"
No one was speaking.
"The Marquesa realized I was already sentenced to death. She could drop that trap whenever she wants, but for now she thinks it's more important for my big shifting project to get under way. I need to get everything about the mythic prehistory of the Sworn Lands off the shelves, dusted and incorporated into the modern heresies zone. Can I get some help with that? Anyone?" The entire contingent looked everywhere but at me. "Fine."
I was now even more alone than I'd been by choice. I spent weeks on my project, which of course was the cover for me to pull every story that might have a mention of this oracle blade off the shelf for a good perusal. More materials were coming into the library daily. It seemed that the Obsidian Circle was stepping up their propaganda efforts out in the real Sworn Lands, not just the Gallows. All of that shit would then get discovered, terrorize a few citizens and then it got collected and delivered out here. Still no messenger birds that I could see.