The blade was not held in a vault or an ark or wrapped in any kind of ceremonial garb. I'm not even sure why I hought that was an option. Perhaps it had to do with their quick words and wits and the wine they poured so freely. Being free with wine has always seemed to me to be the kind of thing you could only do when the word sumptuous could be used to describe your meals clothes or parties. 
It was in a regular scabbard. There were straps to hold it close to one's body but for now they dangled.
"Do you want to test it?" Gertrude asked.
I did not. If this was the blade I'd told the story about it would do me no good. I didn't owe the Marquesa so much as to make sure I was being sold a true bill of goods by liars.
But that really was the question now. What did I owe the Marquesa and what was my plan now? I needed to sort this out.
There were ways to leave the Sworn Lands. Many ways. I am sure of it. In my old life before coming here I could see all the endpoints. I would be here for a certain amount of time, bid my farewells and be gone. From outside this place there were so many options. I know there are straight up gates and borders on the other side of the shattered zones. All I needed to do was keep walking and/or use a boat for a while and I'd get to the crossing where most of the people I was trying my best not to resemble would stumble across for their debauched experiments in daring their friends to tell the truth or be sentenced to... 
And that was a bit of a curious feature of this place, wasn't it. If all the people who got convicted of lies were sentenced to work in the library where were they? The Marquesa hadn't been going on a bloody pogrom or anything like that. There were surely unmurdered foreign prisoners much like myself, regardless of where they'd entered the Sworn Lands. We weren't that different just because I came in through the working person's door.
I asked Shadom about the others, the people who came to the lands from outside. Did the propagandists have any theories about them?
"You haven't been reading your heresies, have you?" asked Steville. He was short and wide, with a complete lack of shoulders, like an overturned spinning top. "There are a few stories about the world outside, brought in by people like you, but since there's no one to verify the tales they're always silenced pretty much right off. At this point we haven't had a new one in, well, I was a kid the last time a new one found my ears."
"She hasn't quite gone so far as to say the world outside doesn't exist. There are too many people who have to deal with it, especially around the mountain gate, for that to work. But the idea of talking about those places that aren't here, that aren't the past of here or the future of here, well that is verging on the anathema. If you're serious about collecting heresies in your little library, those are the stories she really doesn't want on the record."
"That's not what she doesn't want!" Gertrude interrupted. "The Marquesa doesn't want any stories about her and her misdeeds to circulate. She's scared of what she's done, scared that someone is going to find out she runs a land on hyper-vindictive policy based on her own gratification."
"You see her being gratified? She's unhappy as anyone. It's almost sad, but no, she doesn't know how to make her world any better so she's working on shiny new buildings and keeping everyone who's here tied to her."
But it's such a petty world, I thought. This place is a dung heap. I step outside the sworn lands and I'm free. I'm crossing stars in a mile-long spacecraft filled with billions of other people and ways of organizing their lives and time. There's really nothing about this stupid piece of shit that should be keeping me here this long. Nothing at all. What is this quest? There is no quest here. This is an escape route. The Marquesa was giving me my out to get back to a world that I fit into. Without her control. And these propagandist assholes, they wouldn't be able to hack it out there in the realer world where people value, well, I guess I don't really appreciate what the people out there value either, but it's got to be better than tilting at a ridiculous meaningless foe. Is she even hurting anyone? Just people who want to be in these lands. And again, I began realizing, that didn't include me.