I was peaceably replacing mythological treatises in a case when Shadom returned. The books I was dealing with were in one of those areas where I had issues with our cataloguing minions. I mean, I didn't agree with the purpose of the library, to hold only lies, but even if you agreed with that premise it seemed to me that works analyzing what had been written were at least arguably true. While Krishna-substitute probably didn't stop a war by deflecting ten thousand arrows with his left hand, works analyzing what happened in the world because of the story of this massive arrow deflection were truly depicting the world as it arose from people thinking about that fictional thing. But that's not how the Sworn Realms worked apparently. And because we were a library that could only hold lies anything I'd learned here was necessarily untrustworthy.
If wanted to know what was really going on, I'd need access to the Marquesa's surveillance feed. But would that have anything like records? I didn't know, and couldn't know, really.
This was where my musings took me at that time. It was a pleasant enough speculative realm but that was all. And then Shadom found me.
Now, it's probably important to note that this library was not the kind that really welcomed visitors. It was more of a repository, a storehouse that was organized. So much of it felt like a make-work project to occupy a bunch of people while their bodies gradually wore out, withered up and died. I never saw people enter the library to read the materials. The only disturbances I ever found in the organization of the stacks were where other shelvers had rearranged things to cover up gaps I'd left by borrowing things off to the shelf in my cell. There were no researchers, no students, no readers. 
Once every few months we would find a person sleeping. Sometimes this was right near the main entrance, and they'd just come in to get out of the cold. Occasionally they were sleeping deep in the stacks. These ones I wondered about. It seemed like they'd been on expeditions. Long term forays into our house of lies, that seemed to me quite glamorous in that rugged ne'erdowell kind of way. 
But there were rules we had to follow. Whoever found the sleeper (and they were always sleeping when they were found, and they were usually very unkempt) notified a supervisor, who came along to wake the sleeper up. If Harriet was the supervisor she attended wearing gloves and carrying a stick for protection. These accessories were not stipulated in any regulations. Once the sleeper was ambulatory she'd be escorted out the main entrance to our wizened guard (supposedly there was a young guard too, but I never saw it). Then they were out of the library and the routine could be restored. 
That was the extent of the outside world encroaching on us. When Shadom cleared his throat in the mythological beasts I was more than startled.
Shadom had grown in the last three years. He'd been a gangly scowling kid who talked too old for his age, but now he had thickened out, not exactly into muscle. More like his bones had added new layers. The shape of his face had changed subtly, like he'd been punched in it a few too many times. His skin was a bit puffier too, but he didn't look ravaged by anything. Despite my wanderings in Gallows I'd never been sure what it would be like to live out there, if it was the kind of place where people could eat their fill or a more miserable existence. (In the library there was a cafeteria we had vouchers for. It was staffed by dead-eyed automatons, but the food was enough to sustain life. I'd grown a little thicker myself.)
"What are you doing here?"
He didn't smile. "We need your help." He held up a cautionary finger. I took it to mean I should think about what I said. I looked down the stacks. No one was around. But who could tell about the drones? "The air has ears" and all that. So I didn't ask who We were. I just nodded.
Now he smiled. "Cool. You remember those words? The ones you said?"
I stared at him. "The words I said?"
He winced, and I got that he was trying to avoid something. If he was being listened to, there'd probably be all sorts of keywords he couldn't say that the Marquesa would be listening for. But he was already in a place he'd never been before. You would think that'd be enough for anything he did to be flagged immediately. Hell, if I wasn't being strictly monitored before, now I definitely was.
"Yeah. Turns out they're important. They changed my life. I just wanted you to know." He had a desperate look on his face. There was something beneath this that he needed me to understand. Something he wasn't going to be able to say. A very important message he couldn't say out loud. "I just want you to know."
Fuck. What words had I said to Shadom? I'd said a lot of things and it had been a few years in the past. It must have been something at his interrogation. But how could I remember? The Marquesa would know. She probably had her transcripts of everything that happened in the Sworn Lands. Too bad those weren't kept in the library.
I shrugged at Shadom. His fist tensed as he scowled. He weighed something, risks and rewards probably, and apparently it came out that he'd said all he could. "Okay," he said. "Bye. I'll see you around."
He slipped out of my row. His steps echoed softly on the hard floor. I was distracted and it took longer than usual to finish up my cart of mythology. I wrangled with the conversation over and over. Conversation. It was maybe four or five sentences now. How do you remember what you said to a person years in the past. It's impossible. Well, obviously it's not impossible. I did come up with it. I remembered it and wrote it down, recorded it for posterity. But though you're in a position to put it all together so easily and quickly, it wasn't like that for me.
I spent days thinking about what I could have said to Shadom and why he would have come to the library to tell me. At first I attached this huge amount of risk to what he had done. "Why would he come here? It must be so important to risk his life like that!" But after a while revelling in the melodrama I came to my senses. 
No one is risking their life by coming into the library. Just because we never saw people in the library didn't mean it was some terrible dangerous place. I was succumbing to this vision of my warehouse being a hotbed of insurrection, the most dangerous room in the realm. I loved that feeling. I could not trust that feeling. Gallows is the place of lies, and that extends into the great warm romantic feelings that it could arouse.
I went through a phase of thinking I'd totally missed the point and that Shadom hadn't been there for some dangerous reason, except to his own ego. It had just been the slightly older young man admitting his juvenile crush on an older woman. He was embarassed, but also wanted to see if there was any romance possible there. Then he fled when that was obviously not a requited feeling. I have never had it said that I was very sensitive to those kinds of situations, so this explanation was the one I settled on. Poor Shadom and his unrequited love.
I did go out into Gallows a bit more around this time. I wasn't exactly looking for Shadom to tell him it was all right and we could hang out some time, but if I'd seen him that's what I'd say. I was learning a bit more about the neighbourhood the library hunkered in, and I imagine I became a familiar sight on my walks. I ate a bit less in our dead-eyed cafeteria and found a place I liked to eat breakfast. I smiled at the staff from the wobbly chair by the window, and never told them what I was reading.
At work they reassigned me from general shelving to a deeper level, but one where I had a workstation and would be affixing labels we'd been sent from the cataloguing department. The shelvers would come to me to ask questions about the finer points of sporting novels when the labels weren't clear. There were a number of older classification systems coexisting on our shelves and going through and doing a massive relabelling project was on my "If I rwouldnan the library" list.
Time was passing. Harriet remained old and terrible, but because I wasn't in as frequent contact, she became more a source of stories for me to share with my fellow librarians. I was settling in. Shadom and his little interjection into the library life didn't have much of an effect. I was growing roots and a place. I moved to a little apartment outside the library where I didn't keep much stuff, but could cook my own meals. I was feeling more and more like being a permanent fixture in the library wasn't such a bad fate. Sure, no one outside the carbuncle took you seriously, but who needs to be taken seriously. I was existing along in my irrelevant state. All was well with the world.
And then one day we learned the Marquesa was going to visit us. The staff went on high alert, making everything was dusted and neat. I'd learned from my coworkers that anything not neatly stowed away was a possible end of the world situation, and since we were all her property as criminals against the realm, we could be dealt with in the most intense of manners.
Shelvers especially were cleaning and straightening and tidying. A large shifting project had to be abandoned and the books were all slapped onto whatever shelves they could find. It was assumed that the Marquesa wouldn't care too much about the details, merely appearances.
I was in a zoology section, and as often happened I was reading through something I'd found, in this case a frightfully inaccurate but entertaining book about the secret lives of giraffes. I rounded the end of a shelf and there was a sleeper. Around him was chalked a black circle. The circle crossed the words also written on the ground "Doom is coming. She knows."