Our hike across the sworn lands was monotonous in retrospect. At the time each moment seemed like there was some new difficulty or hardship. There were provisions to acquire when the winter turned bad and feet to stamp to revive their circulation and all of that. It's all tedious at the time and makes for a poor telling. 
I have often read the diaries of explorers and I love the matter-of-fact ways they set things out. "Three dogs died last night." ""Amazing lights in the sky." All that stuff. But it doesn't really handle the details of the travel. It's so hard to get the details down in a way that will be anything other than tedious.
We hiked and we hiked. Though the weather did turn bad on us, the roads we were following were good and solid. There were places where we could rest and eat and recover our spirits.
Shadom never became a good conversationalist. He would pull at straps on his pack obsessively, trying to rebalance his load in such a way that he could no longer feel it. I would have pointed out that hiding weight might be seen by some as a deception and if he were a true Sworn Lander he'd want to carry his awkward load as awkwardly as he possibly could. But the boy was already being forced out of his home to accompany me, and as far as I knew was also going to be executed on arrival wherever we were going.
The Marquesa had never been very clear what the point of sending me away was. I was hers to do with as she wished because I had lied. Shadom said he did not know if he was being punished severely or was just being removed from Fandei conveniently while the lord's estate got settled. When he said he didn't know, of course I believed him.
Ostensibly there must be something waiting at our destination. We were very gradually crossing the Sworn Lands in decreasing elevation.  The sea would make itself known at some point if we kept going this way. It had been a while since I'd seen the sea.
My geographical knowledge of the area was sketchy, and though I had reference material along, I felt guilty about using them with Shadom as a witness. I didn't want him to think I was planning an escape from his guardianship, by looking at information about our surroundings, nor did I want to offend him too badly by reading my fictions.
We met very few people on the road. It seemed odd that there weren't towns built right on the road, but every time I could see chimneys up ahead, they ended up being far up a small track from the road we followed. We had to make the trips up these tracks a few times, especially when it became clear the weather was going to turn. On that one a woman with a donkey loaded down with sticks met us on the track and was startled out of her wits. She scrambled to keep the donkey between us while looking anywhere but our direction. I cast a glance at Shadom, who kept his eyes trained on the ground, dejected under a burden that seemed far greater than his pack.
"Why was she so scared?" I asked him, once we were separated by a bend in the track.
"We're liars. Everyone knows this. We are examples of what happens when people don't take the swearing of truth seriously. We're symbols of everything the people are taught to fear."
I thought about that briefly while Shadom remained silent. "But we aren't a very effective deterrent are we. I mean, we're just hiking along on our own, not being whipped or even inconvenieced really. I mean, hell, the Marquesa set us up with our food and bedrolls for the journey. I've got money in my jacket. This is the way I'd be living to visit these places anyway. I don't get it."
Shadom sighed. We had reached the town and now he had to find us a place to get our rain gear. It all went smoothly and we paid what I felt was a decent price for what we needed. It was effective too, as we learned all huddled in the tent under the wet gloppy snows that swept down on us a couple of days later.
We were so close together in that tent I couldn't hide my reading from Shadom, so I tried to ask more questions. "How did they know we are liars?"
"It is known. Each lord will inform all her vassals what will be coming through their territory. There's a message each morning telling them where we will be, including a couple of predicitons if there is any uncertainty."
"The Marquesa of course doesn't have to track each vassal individually but you and I are now marked as hers, so we are constantly on broadcast. Anyone in the Sworn Lands can easily be aware of who we are, what we are doing and what we have said. It is so that we can be held to account. I'm surprised you didn't know this. Aren't you supposed to be connected to the world around you? I thought that was why you travelled, and yet you don't even have the faintest notion of the way we live?
"Tome, you are a shitty traveller, and an unengaged tourist feeding on pretty spectacles without the slightest notion of what is real here. I am ashamed of you and your solipsistic narcissistic ways. You are a piece of filth I am tremendously unhappy to know."
It was a couple more weeks before we reached the Marquesa's capital.