/* I was ready to spend days in my cell. It seemed like the kind of thing that could happen. You cross a border these days and you give up your right to think that anything happening to you is undeserved. What are you doing going wandering aound if you aren't prepared to be imprisoned for a while. That's the price I guess.

/* I've talked to many people who don't believe this is the case, and I carry loads of stories from these kinds of perspectives. If these sorts of people travel beyond a narrow zone pandering to their presumed tastes they are inevitably affronted that the world they have visited is not like the one they are accustomed to. And the problem with that, as far as I can tell, is that often they don't even realize what they're accustomed to back home.

A while back I was on a small boat with a number of strangers. It was in a Kneeler land, but not on of the excessively pious ones. The lords and officials liked having us tourists in there with our harder outside funds (I've only been a couple of places where Counter currencies aren't welcome) and as long as we stayed out of the wheels of commerce and faith we were welcome as carriers of those financial instruments. That's neither here nor there, a commonplace you'd get from any tourist. I feel a little ashamed speaking of it like that; it betrays certain elements of my colonial mindset... but we can get into that later.

On this boat there were a number of flow-following folks, which made sense, as we were flowing down a fairly major river. The crew were not rich. Back in homelands neither were the passengers but there, as so often happens, perspectives shifted. There was one of the passengers, a devotee of some Queen or another, who was physically unable to forsake complaining. The Kneelers were all trying to steal his money and nobody knew how to do anything efficiently in this backwards realm and he didn't know why he'd come in the first place but these places were supposed to be good for a grand adventure. He had a partner who was quieter in his disapproval of the situation, but it was there.

On the scond day floating along on the river we discovered that there was no more food.

"Bloody typical!" They pocketed all the money and didn't even manage the barest concern for us. Typical Kneeler respect."

He stopped short of saying anything vicious or harassing, but it wasn't to spare the sensibilities of the crew. He was obviously hoping not to come off like a total monster to the rest of us. He failed.

His partner though, she was the kind of person who planned for little difficulties, and brought clever ways to deal with them. She had a pile of little waxed paper troughs to piss in so we didn't have to hang our asses off the side of the toilet-free boat all the time. Like a little temporary disposable cock. It was kind of her to share.

On the third morning we awoke an hour out of our destination and the loud complaining man was gone. The crew and the rest of us only noticed at breakfast, but of course she must have noticed before then. The sailor with the best Core spoke to her to ask if he was sick.

"No. He's gone." She continued eating her beans.

There was a bit of commotion and the Core-speaker brought her to his boss on the boat (it still seems grandiose to call the thick woman with thin hair a captain) and there was a hushed conversation with a lot of nodding and subvocalization. I imagine they were making it clear the boat was not responsible for the person. For her part it looked like she was also assuring them that they would not be held responsible. 

And then she came back to our meager breakfast. She talked and made jokes and clearly didn't want to talk about her now-absent partner. I imagine we all assumed she'd tossed him overboard in the night. It couldn't just have been me. But if that's what happened why would she do it with all the rest of us there as possible witnesses?

As it turned out I was never asked about the incident again. I followed the news of travellers for a good while afterwards and never saw any indication that the disappearance was being followed up on at all.

So maybe that's a cautionary tale. If you like things exactly the way they are, don't go anywhere you might find out what else could happen. Or it's an emancipatory tale saying you should go visit Kneeler lands if you have a relationship that needs ending.

***

/* I told you that story so I can tell you this one. No one came to my cell for days. There was a faucet and a bucket with a drain that appeared to be clay or something similar. There was a small cupboard with crackers. I suppose that's what made it feel less like I was being imprisoned. You give me control overwhen I eat, even if the food is boring then I'm not going to make much of a fuss. It's the regimentation of enforced mealtimes that would have ground down my spirit. This way it was just like being on a retreat. There are many times when I've been in some new place and I just stayed in a room my entire time in a town, so who's to say that's not what I would have been doing anyway?

/* The cell had no windows. The walls seemed like they must have been extraordinarily thick because I heard nothing through them. It reminded me of a cave I stayed in in another Kneeler land a long time ago. The walls were whitewashed and we had many more blankets than if we'd stumbled upon a cave in the wilderness, but the immensity of the walls and their blocking of the outside world was impressive. I'd completely missed a wicked thunderstorm that uprooted whole trees when I was sitting in that cave. This felt similar.

/* And it turned out I missed even more behind these thick walls.

/* When I heard the knock, I was surprised, toosurprised to do more than look up at the door as it opened. One of the guardlike functionaries entered and flicked her eyes over the cell. I rated as lingering a gaze as the ceiling. She stepped back before I could say anything, and as I slipped my legs over the side of my bunk towards the open door, a small man stepped in.

/* The insides of his thick sleeves were worn shiny by his wrists. I'm not sure why that caught my attention, but that's the impression he gave. His jacket was a heavy, formal looking thing, with a subtle pattern woven into it. His face was narrow but bent, like looking at a battle mangled sword edge-on.

/* "You are Tome-Criminal?" He asked the question but wasn't looking at me. There was evidently something fascinating about the ceiling in here.

/* I told him I was named Tome.

/* "Who do you know in Fandei Manor?" He was sweeping the ceiling with his gaze now.

/* I told him I knew no one in Fandei Manor. "I assume that's the name of this place, right?"

/* That got his attention. He pressed his left wrist to his temple and winced. "You do not even know of the house in which you are a guest? This is a most distressing piece of news. Most distressing." I wondered how much of his scalp he left in the wrists of his jackets. He was pretty intense about it. I shrugged.

/* "This is most distressing but there is no alternative. You need t clean up and follow me into the presence of..." He switched hands on his head for a moment before collecting himself. He clasped hands behind his back, radiating tension but breathing deeply to project a bit of calm.

/* "You will follow me now."

/* "All right," I said. "I'll have to gather my wardrobe."

/* I didn't expect that poor excuse for a joke to get any reaction, but it did.

/* Swordface's hands flew to his head and he began bellowing. "You do not have a wardrobe! There is no wardrobe for you to collect!" He tossed a glance over his shoulder as a guard entered. "why would you even say such a thing?"

/* It didn't feel like he wanted an actual answer to that question, but I tried. "It was a joke. I don't have anything but I said I had lots of stuff. It was a joke. It's no big deal."

/* I thought he was going to hyperventilate. When he got control over himself he spoke again. "You are in the Sworn Lands. Speaking untruths here is not permitted. Speaking untruths to the lord of the house will be most upsetting to everyone. Do not do so, especially not with the Marquesa in attendance. Or it will be the doom of all of us."

/* Okay, I thought. No jokes. I can handle that. And three more guards entered to take me away.