# hfwtn01

hile the day may have been beautiful, there was still a lot more walking than I really wanted to do. The one foot in front of the other slog is not a terrible way to while away your hours though, so on I went, a little faster than most of the surrounding revellers, but not at messenger pace or what have you.

Messenger pace. No there was an anachronism built right into the fabric of this world. One would think that the creators would have seen fit to have a quick way to communicate with each other in their celestial foreknowledge. There was not a fundamental reason, as far as I knew for being of their capabilities to merely converse, to commune even, as if they were sharing a bath. No reason as far as I could see, but that didn't mean there wasn't a reason.

And it was always important to note that if they could communicate in their natural ways what would have become of those of us dragging ourselves through their mazes, even those of us with our lofty intentions of knowledge for all who wanted it?

So these were the thoughts I was absorbed by when the dusty, cough-inducing path rounded the final switchback that put us through the pass. To be honest the waycastle didn't look like much, but after a day of ups and downs it was sorely welcomed by my lower body.

There were dour-faced greeters and cheerful enforcers and all the rest of the normal accoutrements of a fairly major country home of a minor lord. It's all for show these days. The lord, or at least the lord's house is completely aware of all its visitors. We'd arrived through the mountains after all and the mountains were designed to be the true screening test. All the shuffling at the gates was purely for show. Just trying to instill the right mood.

I don't know if I ever would have been able to summon the actually correct mood for this sort of occasion. The guards or whatever you want to call them want to be feared. The masters want to be respected, but if you feared them instead, well that was okay too. The rest of your fellow humans just wanted to get along without too much trouble. And really, to be honest that's all I was looking for as well. Not too much trouble.

So when they started calling out for me - "Tome! We're looking for a visitor named Tome!" - I was less than entirelye pleased. But I gathered up my little blue pack and shuffled to the bellower. 

She was large and solid, a veritable symbol of her role in defending the manor and its inhabitants. This was a little on the nose to my sensibilities. The philosophy seemed to be ou don't put a guard out who doesn't look like a wall. You use the small and slender folk with those kinds of skills for lurking and watching. It wasn't the best way to do things, especially since playing with appearances shouldn't have been any difficulty, but who was I to say. I'm new here, just a visitor for the holiday.

"You're Tome?" The wall-woman asked when I approached.

"I am."

She beckoned me to come closer, though with the difference in our heights it meant mutual neck-strain. Physical intimidation is such a boring art. I mean, now I'd be cricking my neck back and she'd have to stoop and neither of us would be comfortable. It's a shame, but this is why you travel: to learn how other folk see the world. And evidently this part of the world had no problem with looking at the top of my head.

"Remove your hood."

"What is the problem? Surely you know who I am. What kind of impediment is the hood causing?" Lest you think I'm brave or impudent or some other admirable thing, I had removed the hood as soon as she asked. It's true though, that these servants manning the gates would have known far more about me than could be hidden by mere fabric, no matter how clever its design. I was unwrapping the rest of my travelling scarf to be in full compliance, when she nodded.

"And you were walking up this road earlier today?"

"Of course I was. I believe it is the only road from the Counter lands, which is where I've recently been."

She blinked. Now, I say she but you must realize that this was a mere functionary, this was a living cog in the machinery of the world. When such creatures do the work that earns their keep they are more technically neutral. They try their best to construct themselves in this way. I understand that the goal is an interchangeability and impartiality, so no one subject to their gaze is treated any differently than any other. Which, well, I suppose in some circumstances that is a laudable goal.

"Did you pass a group of musicians on the path?"

Of course I had, but I took a moment or two to feign taking the time to recollect my day's travel. Some call this playing dumb, but I think it's very important to never let on exactly what you're thinking. It's like my version of the functionary's impartiality.

When I nodded, the guard said. "Please speak aloud in interactions with the Manor house."

And there again was where I could maybe have realized what was happening, but I'd been in the Counter lands where nobody cared what you said as long as the sums came out right. I had not done my research and was not prepared to be as wary as I should have been. I was dealing with power here, and foolishly (so foolishly) I spoke to it.

"Yes I did. I believe we exchanged chit-chat."

The guard did not light up. What happened instead was a tension somewhere released as new gears came into play. It was interesting seeing this happen on her face. I say that despite the hardships I had to overcome because of it. The muscles around her eyes twitched before her blink and her left hand flashed behind her back and she rose on the balls of her feet. I could not tell if she knew this was all happening and obvious to me. In my peripherals it was clear that it was obvious to everyone crowding through the gates into the manor-town as well. They gawked, not quite slack-jawed, but with the air of impending doom that they'd get to witness, fortunately happening to someone that was not them.  little bit of awe that they'd see so clearly something that they'd only heard in whispers before perhaps.

At this point I realized I'd made a mistake, but it was still not quite clear to me what the mistake had been. I didn't think it was opening my mouth in the first place. I'd been asked questions and complied to the best of my ability. I'd done what I could and things were about to go terribly wrong.

"Thank you for your cooperation Tome-Visitor." The guard was joined by 3 more from the same mold. It looked like they'd come from the other side of the gate, as the rest of the crowd was being processed without delay. "You will now come with us."

I nodded and assumed an expression like I was about to seak. There was no real point to running. At this point I had the focus of Power on me and I had no trust in my abilities to evade that gaze. I cannot turn invisible, or flee on the wind. I'm just a regular soul travelling this realm with my little blue sack sharing what information I can where I find myself. There was nothing I'd be prepared to do in the face of actual force, even if I were sure what these functionaries' powers extended to. Was this the kind of place where they'd be able to stomp a person into paste without repercussion? Those places exist, and if this was one of them I did not want to be a lesson to others about doing your research before heading off to some manor party.

They took the opportunity of me not speaking to surround me, and I nodded. It was an indication that yes I would comply with their suggestions, but I'd learned that a sentence could change a lot of details here quickly. 

We walked through the gate. The guards all matched my pace exactly, which was unnerving, but made it feel like an honour guard. Though the effect was spoiled by the averted gazes from every being in the manor-village. They studied the mud and the cobbles rather than get noticed by my entourage.

Staring at the broad backs of the two in front of me I noticed they had a slightly different insignia than I'd seen from the road security forces. It was a symbol I'd seen before, but at the moment I was unlikely to be free to do any research. It bothered me though.

We arrived in the shadow of the manor house. Saying house is a misnomer, as the place had impeccable high walls that no dog would dare to piss on, and those walls seemed to enclose acres of space. It was hard to tell exactly, but it looked very grand. I was surprised not a bit at the squat windowless building we walked into instead.

There was a short hallway, a cage where I deposited my blue pack and emptied my pockets, and finally a cell. It had no bars and felt like the sort of place a monk would sleep and try to meditate.  entered without complaint. Even now, after all that happened I'm ashamed of that. Obviously I could not hope to change anything once I was about to be taken. And at the time it seemed like a better idea to just roll with it and figure a way out later. But traps are made to be tricky and I guess I never did really escape this one.