"When I arrived in my lord's room he was behind a screen. I placed his tea on the sideboard and left. I didn't turn my back on him. He hated that sort of common thing. Even if he had his own back turned, somehow he knew. I removed myself quickly. I was in the room for no more than a dozen breaths."

The lord's household was filled with people. I could hardly believe the number of people it seemed to take him to maintain his semblance of life. Self-sufficient he was not.

"The lord didn't move when I entered. He didn't move when I laid his garments on his bed. He didn't say anything. I didn't see him. He was behind a screen."

And the house itself was huge. Swordface had nearly shat himself when the Marquesa handed me over to him with instructions to see to my desires as I was now under her particular protection. I became Tome-Honoured Guest without any further ado.

"His graciousness and moon of the mountains was coy in his refusal to have his scalp massaged and oiled. This was most irregular. We have a wonderful relationship as you well know. Or will know. There was no comfort he could find in this life apart from my fingers' deeply sensitive actions."

It was actually kind of amazing to be in this position. The position of no one really knowing my role. If the Marquesa had been trying to reward me she could not have chosen a better way. I quickly learned about the consciousness of status in the lord's home. It seemed preternaturally precise in its gradations and subgradations. Not only did everyone know their rank compared to every other being on the premises, but I got the impression that they knew exactly how much status they needed to gain to move up the ladder. It was disconcerting really. You expect that kind of thing in the Counter lands not these foreign shores. Perhaps the mountains were not as much a barrier to ideas as I had thought.

"I brought the lord's herb and apparatus to bear as scheduled but he did not ask for it to be brought to his grasp directly. I gathered he was already under another influence. Oh I hope you won't report that. That could be most embarassing."

On further reflection maybe this was merely a displacement of the Counter tendency. Counters like to count actual things, even if imaginary. These people were assigning value to insubstantial incoporeal ideas, as if there was a truth behind them, some fact that could be dealt with though insustantial.

"The lord's foot moved once."

The seventeenth interviewee and I could be surprised by a young boy. 

We were sitting in a very pleasant room with a panoramic view of the plains stretching out below Fandei to my left. To my right the walls were covered with an incredibly realistic mural of the mountains. I sat on a cushion in a stepped room I would have called a throne room if I hadn't been warned it was called a receiving room by Swordface, and not very subtly reminded that calling it anything else now would be an untruth that I could ill afford. Swordface did not like me one bit. It's possible it was because I was a woman. There are, even in this time and place, people who feel very drawn to the idea of biology determining essential parts of our character. Swordface had a bit of that air. More likely, he didn't appreciate my attire and manner of speech and general demeanour which, if I do say so myself, has less to do with biology and more to do with other preferences. 

I was starting to get the hang of this place. They wanted things to look exactly like what they were, so they could not be accused of deception, or even the appearance of such. I was a little surprised it took as long as it did for me to be incarcerated, this being such an inimicable land to an obfuscative person like myself.

The boy in front of me was probably 11 years old. His dark limp hair was severely parted on the left, which was the mountain side in this room. It looked a little like a blanket laid out over the expanses, and I wonder if that was intentional, a way of subsuming himself even to the room he would be speaking in. It troubled me.

His head was down, so contemplating his part was all that was left to me. He didn't follow his sentence up with anything more. I threw a pebble into the pond. "Do you mean the lord's foot?"

He hesitated before shaking his head. I threw a clod of dirt.

"So it was someone else's foot."

He startled severely like my declarative sentence had struck him. His mouth opened and closed.

"Am I telling the truth small soldier?" He only blinked so I sighed. Being provocative might not be the best way to handle a small child. It had been a while since I'd dealt with children.

"What is your name small one?"

"I am named Shadom." He was back on his own ground now.

"What were you doing in the lord's chamber? That is where we should have started. Is it all right with you if we go back to that point?"

"I am not supposed to say."

It was tempting to ask how he'd even come into the questioning sessions then, but as far as I knew the house was rounding up everyone who'd been near the premises when the lord was found dead. 

"I see. Why is that?"

He looked up at me pleading for me to stop. The problem was that the boy couldn't say he didn't know, as he did. But he'd been told never to tell anyone about the secret he held. I didn't want to know the secret. If it was the kind of thing it could be it could get very problematic very quickly.

Now I'm not saying I'm a heartless bitch here, but I did have my own skin to think about. If I was to get out of this situation intact, I needed to find a murderer, not a horrific sex ring. That'd probably be seen as a bit of a digression from the script. It would help if I knew more about the Marquesa and her politics and particulars. Was she looking for incidental justice as things went by or is focus her game. I had no idea how ruthless she might be. My impression was she had a temperamanet of a stone that cut glass.

Well fuck it. All stones cut water and I was already a dead woman.

"Do you know how I got here, to this house?"

His head shook.

"I flew here standing on the backs of a dozen swans."

He stared, shocked. "No you didn't!"

"You speak the truth Shadom. You are much better at it than I am. I'm not going to lie to you, though, it's very important that you answer my questions. I can say a lot of things that you wouldn't say. Why don't you say something to me about what you do for the lord. What you did."

He looked hard at me, and I coud see that my gambit had worked. He was judging me now. He saw I was the inferior worthless piece of trash in the room. I was the one who was going to be taken away and eventually dumped in the carrion pits because I was not a good human being like him. All his training and prejudice was working together and it overcame the revulsion at this woman who would say things that were nothing like the truth. Only in the Sworn Lands could this possibly work.

"I brought the paints for our lord's face," he said. "I was the best at applying them, and making sure no one could tell they were there. No one knew my job. On a day like this I just came in after the last of the attendents had removed themselves, and I did my work. People would say how vigorous the lord looked, how even earlier that afternoon he hadn't had that life. He was so old. He needed paints to be the strongest and most intrepid leader. The one we deserved in Fandei."

You helped him lie, I thought. I did not say it because once the words came out they'd be the truth.

"I entered the lord's chamber and found him dead. He twitched and spasmed. There was shit down his leg. It was brutal and ugly and wrong. This was not our lord, there defecating in his own trousers. So I dressed him and disposed of the soiled clothes and wrestled his arms from their positions. I thought he would look more dignified when someone found him. I did not know it would look poison."

The boy was intent on me throughout this recitiation. I could see the haughtiness rebuild him as he poke. He was aping someone else's style of speech, I was sure of it. But it did not matter. In the sworn lands this kind of confession seemed to be the best we would get.

"I have no idea what will happen to you now. That must have been some kind of crime you committed, even if it was just lying about the bdy.

"I repositioned the body. I clothed it and painted his face. It was not a lie of words."

I thought. I could probably pass that off to the Marquesa.

"All right. That's what happened. You say it, it's the truth."

Shadom looked very self-righteous at that.

:Thank you. I have someone I need to discuss this with.

The boy turned his back on me as he left the receiving room. If he'd known the Marquesa was behind the screen in the shadow of the painted mountains, he probably would have been a little more humble. Or maybe not now. Now humility might be the kind of deception I'd just wrung out of his character. How good for me.

The Marquesa emerged from her shadows and I stood up. "Do we continue the rest of the questioning farce? It's possible we'll find out some more interesting truths. Get a pile of confessions from people even older and less likely to follow your rules. Or was he the most likely? I don't know. It's difficult."

I sighed and looked up at her. She stared at something just below my left earlobe. "Are we done now. Can you now do whatever you were going to do with me for lying in your precious land?"

The Marquesa laughed. "No I think you're more useful to everyone as my hireling. We'll head to the city tomorrow. I have somewhere I'd like to keep you.