/* I am sure there was and still is a long way through Fandei. There would be a scenic route taking in the majesty of the mountains it nestles in and the squalour of the people lucky enough to be caught in the shadow of their betters. I have since learned that's one of the central metaphors that recurs again and again in writing from Fandei. The mountains cast shadows, as do the powerful.

/* There's a story about a young man in Fandei who went to try and win his true love's heart by finding a sword of incomparable lightness and strength. After many harsh adventures he found this weapon and returned home with it and stood before his true love, placing it at his feet. His lover scorned him. The lover rejected the entire notion that strength and light were of any use to a person who lived in the shadow of the mountains. They needed heavy things to survive the darkness. The adventuring young man denied this and his lover cast him out of the land. The sword remained in the true love's house, where it had a heavy scabbard made for it. And it was never drawn again.

That's the kind of story that makes a big impression in Fandei, so I know there are streets out there that could shelter a teller of tales. I don't know exactly what I think of that one. But it fits my experience in that the shadows are well known in the town.

/* Swordface led my little entourage through tunnels that were not as picturesque as others I'd been in. Evidently there were whole warrens of these things, as we passed many a crossing with hunched and stooping people bustling about. Thankfully they used some sort of phosphorescent moss for illumination. I don't know how I would have dealt with a lot of smoke. Though maybe the smoke would have been ventilated better than I imagined. They did seem to know what they were doing.

/* But knowing what you're doing isn't exactly a hallmark of creativity in my experience. Once you know what you're doing everything starts falling apart. I have spent a long time... which makes me sound like I'm far older than the truth would have for you... I have done a fair number of things in my life, and I've never gotten to a comfortable place in any of them. We can talk about the nature of a person and when we do it makes me uneasy, really. 

There's a school of thought saying you don't know shit about a person until you've seen them do their absolute best work. I love that idea, that we're summed up by our peaks. But I don't think it's very true. Fandei has it more right. I've never felt more like myself than when I was being hustled through those shadowy tunnels, being kept away from anyone who might see or interfere with our progression. I suppose that is strange but that's what it felt like to me.

/* Our path corscrewed up some ancient stairs and I found myself the middle link briefly before we hit the open corridors and found a drafty passageway through a stone wall then up again and then were were into wood, fragrant and flexible. Once we were up in these domains, Swordface's tension levels rose again, along with his sleeves. He stopped us at a door that would slide on a frame. There was no possibility the room beyond was soundproof and I could see servants or other householdfolk gathering down the hell. Of course whatever was about to happen would be at least a little bit public.

/* Swordface nodded and I had guard hands on my shoulders. "You are entering the presesnce of the Marquesa of the Sworn Lands. If you make any attempt at violence you will be dead before you can raise your hand. Do not speak an untruth to her. You have commited enough crimes." He nodded again and one of the guards slid the door open for me to step through. The two whose hands rested on me stayed with me, feeling ominous.

The room had been chosen well, for me at least. It was without doubt a sort of library. There were a few light paintings but mostly we were surrounded by books. Possibly the spines of books alone. I had been in such unscrupulous houses before. It made me sick nearly to my toes the waste that something like that would entail, but I got over it. The room wasn't quite tall enough for that tool every true bibliophile wants to try: the ladder on wheels. So it wasn't perfect, but it was a hell of a nice sight in an actually kind of crappy town.

The room was entirely elevated by the Marquesa. She was not a slender woman, but powerful. This was now willowy beast trying to portray herself as frail and innocent. No the Marquesa was built like the guards, though more refined. She could not punch through a wall, but there wasn't anything about her that suggested she couldn't coil herself up like a spring and vault right over the mountains. You think that's metaphorical but I am tellling you the unvarnished truth, and as you know I've just been in the Sworn Lands, so I know of what I speak.

Her skin was dark and green, a shadowy green that almost felt black. There were scars on her face disappearing down into her scarf. This was a woman who exuded power and majesty. I managed to refrain from kneeling when the guards did, though I did have enough manners to keep my mouth shut until asked a question.

The Marquesa was reading. I did not know the book then, but it was a children's adventure tale of Dai and Bo the mismatched twins who went off to retrieve the sixth sword from the obsidian circle. A good story and one full of adventure. And my resolve to keep quiet melted.

"How do you like it?" I asked. If I'd known the book better I'd have asked if it held up on rereading. That's the question that lets you know what is going on inside a person.

She looked up at me from under a raised eyebrow.

"I mean, it's important to know what the last book you liked was. It's always kind of sad to find people who can read but don't." This was not my best tack to take, but hell can only burn you once, right? "I mean, they told me I was here to help you find something good in here."

Out in the hall there was a commotion. Swordface had fainted from my audacity to speak another untruth and worse yet entangle him in it. The Marquesa did not notice.

She flipped a page. "Are you the woman named for a book?" The Marquesa's voice was low but with a rancid curl to it. Smoky tea with a lemon that had gone off.

"No maam I was not. My father died before my birth. I am named for his tombstone. My mother didn't spell too well."

She looked at me again. This time her chin came up from the posture of reading. "Are you making a joke?" She sounded very very cautious, far more than I'd known powerful people to be. Already she'd only asked questions rather than making statements for me to fit in with or attempt to disprove.

"I am not."

"Because I do not know how ignorant you are of this realm, I feel I should warn you about the amount of trouble you're already in. Plus of course the far more troublesome trouble you have no part of.

"You have knowingly borne false witness in the Sworn Lands. It is a matter of principle and law that all in the Sworn Lands, even visitors, speak no word of falsehood. You have done this. You have admitted you did this to the apparatus of state and this has sealed your punishment.

I really wished I had taken my pre-trip research a bit more seriously. "Am I allowed to ask what my punishment is?"

The Marquesa smiled and turned back to her book. "There are options, especially for someone like myself. If I were not here, you would of course be executed. You're a foreigner of little importance here, and it would be best to cut you off right at the nub. Set an example for other outsiders wishing to make fun of our traditions.

"Since I am here though, there are options. Exile and banishment would be the lenient choice, but one I would have to work far too hard to defend. So ths would not have been my choice. The Sworn Lands are not very big proponents of mercy.

"We could have gone with a mutilation or confiscation of all your wealth, and though I see you sigh a bit there, thinking you have not much wealth with you, our grasp is very long and we could destroy you anywehere you might find yourself.

"We are doing none of those things today. Though I suppose we will be incidentally confiscating any wealth you might have. For, you see, we're confiscating you."

Of course when faced with this news I shook my head in a stunned fashion.

"You have now been hired by myself and thus on behalf of the entire Sworn Lands to solve a mystery."

That didn't sound so bad at all. If there's one thing people like me enjoy, it's playing detective.