I had set out from my home with a simple goal. I wanted to go to different places and read there. I didn't really care what sort of thing I would read when I was in a foreign zone. It did not have to be local knowledge or colour. It didn't have to be great works of literature that I had always meant to tackle. It didn't have to be nothing-filled airy shit either, mind you. I merely wanted to be somewhere else while reading about the actions of some other people who weren't there.

There's a legitimate opinion possible to hold that this is a waste of time and resources. If you are travelling to a place you should do your best to experience the place in your marrow. You should indulge every sense, have love affairs, get involved in politics, be changed by the wonders on offer. The first time I travelled anywhere I was with a group of my peers. There was a huge assembly happening that we were sent as a youthful delegation to. It was an excuse for us and our escorts to see the sights of a Counter land, but one much more bistling and exotic than our own. I know I shouldn't use the word exotic, that it marks me off as a terrible person, but truly to the young me, I had no desire other than to do something that none of my friends were doing. I wanted to do something strange and dirty and uncomfortable.

One of our escorts told us that he did not want to see us anywhere but in the moment where our bodies were for that trip. I found this kind of a weird thing to say, especially to a bunch of young humans he was supposed to be responsible for. Or maybe I only thought that later. At the time I wanted not to disappoint anyone, so I gave it a try.

We arrived off or vessel and I tried to experience everything. I reveled in scents and basked in the heat and tried not to mind shitting my guts out while a friend was swindled by Counterfolk. It was an eventful day. By the end I was so tired I could not sleep. The next day was even worse. I was trying to keep up with the glorious experience of difference in crossing a barren, stupid plain to get to a pile of rocks. "This is a place unlike any other place you'll ever know," I told myself. It was exhausting. Because you know what else was unlike anything else? Everything else.

This is the kind of adolescent insight that isn't a big deal. I know that. But at the time it was momentous. The bullshit fields where I lived that I hated because they were all the same were not any less or more special than the fields I was looking at so far away. So if there's any value to literature in one place, there had to also be value in it in the other.

That's when the world started seeping into the stories I was reading. Though one of the stories was about crime and guilt in an old Fragrant realm the qualities of the Counter land I was in coloured the characters. The tea they drank was poured in Counter pots instead of Fragrant, that kind of thing. It was weird, this seepage. I tried to talk to my cohort but there wasn't any recognition of this experience. I, and again please remember I was a young woman at the time, mostly solitary and prone to outbursts of emotion that left what friends I had deeply uncomfortable, assumed this was yet more evidence of my superiority to their whining pampered selves, that somehow I was much better than they could possibly hope to be.

I eventually grew out of that notion, but not before the end of that voyage, or the years after it recollecting it, really. I did my best to set myself up with the kind of training that would send me off to foreign climes so I could recapture that specialness, that power of being able to detach myself from the world that brought me up and stayed behind. My perspective shifted and I discovered that it wasn't actually all about me, that nobody gave a shit what I thought or what I did. I wasn't going to be able to help anyone by going off to gawk at them, even if that was the only thing I ever felt good about myself when I was doing.

I travelled a lot then, and always the seepage of worlds and books stayed with me. I was an insterstitial zone of my own manufacture. But that was not enough to keep me alive and functional, not in the worlds we inhabit. A human must earn her keep. No room for wastrels. And so on.

I spent some time back in my own homeland and tried to become one with it. To recapture the idea that since anywhere was just as unique as any other place then who honestly gave a fuck where you lived? You could be anywhere and live a good life. It was all bollocks. Honestly, I don't understand how I kept on going through all of this, apart from the general notion that it couldn't be all that bad. There had to be something for me out there.

You see why I'm not telling that story here, I hope. The story of the shallow young woman coming of age in her travels, maybe by seeing some underprivileged lands, well that's the kind fo story that's been old when our sun first drew breath. You've heard that story many many times and to be honest, I don't come off very well in it. That's why we're doing this thing here with me as a grown-up. I mean, there's something to be said for a mystery, it's kind of a readymade plot, much more satisfying than wondering if I was going to learn something about myself as I lazed about in my notion of exoticism. Something happened and it led to something else happening, and that's all there is to it. Don't be looking for the epiphany in this one. You aren't doing that story because while I did live that story, it's boring. Fuck it. I'm telling you this story so I don't have to tell you that one.

***

/* The Marquesa stared at me, waiting for a response. I do not know what school of intimidation she did her finishing at but it was an odd one. She didn't focus on my eyes, or my face or even that spot just over your shoulder that was all the rage for a few years in certain circles, though it led to so many clueless bystanders embroiled in intrigues way above their station. She watched my fingers.

I tried to wait her out. There was nothing about this situation that was going to give her any more power, but I wanted to see how long she could go without baring her teeth, metaphorically speaking. While she watched my fingers, her nostrils flickered and her lips twitched. Her lips parted like she was speaking, and her teeth flashed along with her tongue, which was a far brighter blue than the green of her skin was dark.

But her eyes never left my fingers (the ones of my left, non-dominant hand). They soon twitched of their own accord. When that happened I wasn't watching her eyes, but a tiny smirk began to pull at her mouth. It was unsettling. I wanted to brush hair from my face, though I knew it was all phantom contact I was feeling.

She was unsettling, this Marquesa. I told her so, and she broke her gaze.

"Of course. It pays to be so." She behaved like a normal person again, one with countless bodies at her command, but only in the normal ways. "What has happened is this. The lord of Fandei Manor has been killed. It was going to be his daughter's wedding three days ago. Are you aware of this?"

I shook my head. "I guess that's what the party was going to be for."

The Marquesa didn't show any reaction to my ignorance, which should have been insulting.

"The lordling was marrying some other lordling from some other stronghold nearer the succession line of one of the greater Sworn Lands families. But the politics don't hold any concern for you.

"Two days ago the lord of Fandei manor was found dead. Yesterday was to be the wedding. Everything went straight to Hell. All the families, both senior and junior to the Fandeis and the  whoever they ares -" she flicked a finger's worth of dismissal at the notion of these families whose politics I needed know nothing about -"Well, they're all tearing each other apart blaming each other for the death and the confusion over what this means for the wedding and the inheritances and all the tedious bullshit of the provinces. Do you follow?"
I nodded.

"Then you see why I'm confiscating you?" Now she used a more conventional stare-down.

"I suppose it's because I was in the jail at the time so I could not have performed the murder. And no one here knows me and I have no connections and would thus be most impartial."

The Marquesa held her stare. "Those are true statements, but they are not sufficient. You are going to be the investigator, judge and executioner in this case because you have proven that you are a liar. And that means that you are not impartial. You are owned by me. You are a seeker of truth, as all are in the Sworn Lands, but you have also proven that you have no place here, that you are incapable of functioning las a human being, that you are worthless trash that I can dispose of as I wish. You are to be terrified small Tome, for you are about to be destroyed, but... that can all go away if you do this task satisfactorily. Then exile will be your lot and we will trouble you no more."
As I said before, she didn't need to bring out the threats, and the fact she did turned out to be useful down the road.

I asked when I could get started.